committees/maintainer-fund-design-group.md, before:

# Rust Foundation Maintainer Fund Design Committee

## Mission

The *Rust Foundation Maintainer Fund Design* committee is tasked with preparing an RFC that will define how will the funds from the [Rust Foundation Maintainer Fund](https://rustfoundation.org/media/announcing-the-rust-foundation-maintainers-fund/) be used to support Rust Project maintainers.

## Goals

* Gather initial input from stakeholders related to the fund (such as Rust Project maintainers and the Rust Foundation itself).
* Prepare an RFC proposal that will describe how will the Fund work. Specifically, it should answer questions like:
    * Which maintainers are eligible for funding from the Fund?
    * How should we choose the maintainers to fund?
    * Who will choose the maintainers to fund?
    * How will we evaluate the work of the funded maintainers?
* Share the proposal publicly, gather and integrate feedback.
* Drive the RFC towards being accepted.

We want to stress that coming up with an initial design for the Rust Foundation Maintainer Fund is rather timely, we should ideally have something ready by Q1 2026. We might also be unable to come up with the perfect design on the first try. So we should focus on getting something reasonable set up, so that the Fund can bootstrap itself, and then gradually improve it over time.

An explicit non-goal is to prepare a general strategy for distributing funds for supporting maintainers from other sources than the Rust Foundation Maintainer Fund (that can be follow-up work).

## Delegated Responsibilities

No special decision-making authority is given to this committee. Notably, the committee itself will **not** be responsible for actually deciding which maintainers should be funded. Its goal is to prepare a set of guidelines that will describe how will the money from the Fund be used, who will actually make the decision who to fund, etc.

The members of the committee will be given access to the results of the Rust Project Contributor Survey, as those will be useful for determining the rules of the fund.

## Duration

* Temporary
* This committee will exist until the RFC for the Rust Foundation Maintainer Fund lands.
  * We estimate that this might happen during Q1 2026.

## Contact, Communication, and Workspace

- **Zulip Channel**: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/548261-funding


## Process

- Coordination of the committee is primarily done in the [#funding channel](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/548261-funding) on Zulip.
- Most meetings should happen in public on Zulip.
  - In case there are any synchronous call meetings, minutes will be recorded for them.
- Since the goal of the committee is to produce an RFC, it does not need to bring decisions to the council, those will be dealt with on the RFC itself.

## Members

- [Lori Lorusso](https://rust-lang.org/governance/people/LoriLorusso)
  - As a representative of the Rust Foundation, which manages the Fund.
- [Jack Huey](https://rust-lang.org/governance/people/jackh726/)
- [lcnr](https://rust-lang.org/governance/people/lcnr)
- [kobzol](https://rust-lang.org/governance/people/Kobzol)
- [tmandry](https://rust-lang.org/governance/people/tmandry)
- [Josh Triplett](https://rust-lang.org/governance/people/joshtriplett)

Commit message:

Mention that the RFC should have consensus

committees/maintainer-fund-design-group.md, after:

# Rust Foundation Maintainer Fund Design Committee

## Mission

The *Rust Foundation Maintainer Fund Design* committee is tasked with preparing an RFC that will define how will the funds from the [Rust Foundation Maintainer Fund](https://rustfoundation.org/media/announcing-the-rust-foundation-maintainers-fund/) be used to support Rust Project maintainers.

## Goals

* Gather initial input from stakeholders related to the fund (such as Rust Project maintainers and the Rust Foundation itself).
* Prepare an RFC proposal that will describe how will the Fund work. Specifically, it should answer questions like:
    * Which maintainers are eligible for funding from the Fund?
    * How should we choose the maintainers to fund?
    * Who will choose the maintainers to fund?
    * How will we evaluate the work of the funded maintainers?
* Share the proposal publicly, gather and integrate feedback.
* Drive the RFC towards being accepted.

We want to stress that coming up with an initial design for the Rust Foundation Maintainer Fund is rather timely, we should ideally have something ready by Q1 2026. We might also be unable to come up with the perfect design on the first try. So we should focus on getting something reasonable set up, so that the Fund can bootstrap itself, and then gradually improve it over time.

An explicit non-goal is to prepare a general strategy for distributing funds for supporting maintainers from other sources than the Rust Foundation Maintainer Fund (that can be follow-up work).

## Delegated Responsibilities

No special decision-making authority is given to this committee. Notably, the committee itself will **not** be responsible for actually deciding which maintainers should be funded. Its goal is to prepare a set of guidelines that will describe how will the money from the Fund be used, who will actually make the decision who to fund, etc.

The members of the committee will be given access to the results of the Rust Project Contributor Survey, as those will be useful for determining the rules of the fund.

## Duration

* Temporary
* This committee will exist until the RFC for the Rust Foundation Maintainer Fund lands.
  * We estimate that this might happen during Q1 2026.

## Contact, Communication, and Workspace

- **Zulip Channel**: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/548261-funding


## Process

- Coordination of the committee is primarily done in the [#funding channel](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/548261-funding) on Zulip.
- Most meetings should happen in public on Zulip.
  - In case there are any synchronous call meetings, minutes will be recorded for them.
- Talk to the Foundation, the Council and Rust community members to ensure that the final RFC is not surprising to anyone and that we have consensus on it as a Project.

## Members

- [Lori Lorusso](https://rust-lang.org/governance/people/LoriLorusso)
  - As a representative of the Rust Foundation, which manages the Fund.
- [Jack Huey](https://rust-lang.org/governance/people/jackh726/)
- [lcnr](https://rust-lang.org/governance/people/lcnr)
- [kobzol](https://rust-lang.org/governance/people/Kobzol)
- [tmandry](https://rust-lang.org/governance/people/tmandry)
- [Josh Triplett](https://rust-lang.org/governance/people/joshtriplett)
