roles/council-representative.md, before:

# Role Description: Rust Council Representative

This is a description of the role and responsibilities for a Rust Council Representative.
Representatives should read and be familiar with the [Policies governing the Leadership Council][forge-lc].

[forge-lc]: https://forge.rust-lang.org/governance/council.html

## Goals

- Represent the needs and interests of the team and subteams you represent within the Council.
- Represent the needs of the Rust Project at large within the team and subteams you represent.
- Ensure effective communication, collaboration, and coordination among teams.
- Work towards the long-term success of the Rust Project.

## Time Budget

- 2-5 hours per week

## Tasks / Activities / Responsibilities

- Participate in Council meetings, discussions, and decision-making processes.
- Help establish and execute processes and policies concerning the operation of the Council itself.
- Provide updates on Council activities and decisions to the team, subteams, and the Rust community.
- Solicit feedback on Council proposals, decisions, and relevant matters from the team and subteams, and communicate feedback and objections to the Council.
- Collaborate with other Council Representatives to identify, prioritize, and delegate work beyond established team purviews.
- Assist in coordinating cross-team efforts, roadmaps, and long-term Project success.
- Establish and maintain the Rust Project's official mission, vision, aims, positions, and opinions.
- Coordinate Project-wide changes to teams, structures, or processes.
- Make decisions on urgent matters when necessary.
- Coordinate with the Foundation and the Project Directors to convey the needs of the Project and how to best use the resources of the Foundation.

## Qualities of a Council member (required skills)

- Strong understanding of the Rust Project, its teams, processes, and ecosystem.
- Ability to prioritize others' needs, representing all viewpoints from their team.
- Ability to collaborate, communicate, delegate, and work effectively within diverse teams.
- Interest in contributing to Project operations and governance, with sufficient time and energy to dedicate to Council needs.
- Familiar with the needs of their team and subteams.
- Time management and task prioritization abilities.
- Commitment to evolving with the changing needs of the project.
- Ability to work in a low-structure environment and help construct necessary structure incrementally.
- Desire to lean into conflict and its transformation into a healthy part of collaboration.
    - Ability to collaboratively introspect one's own values and those of others, to seek out understanding and consensus.

## Term Length

- 1 year term
- Soft limit of 3 consecutive years - rotation encouraged

Commit message:

Update time budget.
Co-authored-by: Eric Holk <eric@theincredibleholk.org>

roles/council-representative.md, after:

# Role Description: Rust Council Representative

This is a description of the role and responsibilities for a Rust Council Representative.
Representatives should read and be familiar with the [Policies governing the Leadership Council][forge-lc].

[forge-lc]: https://forge.rust-lang.org/governance/council.html

## Goals

- Represent the needs and interests of the team and subteams you represent within the Council.
- Represent the needs of the Rust Project at large within the team and subteams you represent.
- Ensure effective communication, collaboration, and coordination among teams.
- Work towards the long-term success of the Rust Project.

## Time Budget

- 2-5 hours per week typically
  - Sometimes more time can be needed, even up to 20 hours a week.

## Tasks / Activities / Responsibilities

- Participate in Council meetings, discussions, and decision-making processes.
- Help establish and execute processes and policies concerning the operation of the Council itself.
- Provide updates on Council activities and decisions to the team, subteams, and the Rust community.
- Solicit feedback on Council proposals, decisions, and relevant matters from the team and subteams, and communicate feedback and objections to the Council.
- Collaborate with other Council Representatives to identify, prioritize, and delegate work beyond established team purviews.
- Assist in coordinating cross-team efforts, roadmaps, and long-term Project success.
- Establish and maintain the Rust Project's official mission, vision, aims, positions, and opinions.
- Coordinate Project-wide changes to teams, structures, or processes.
- Make decisions on urgent matters when necessary.
- Coordinate with the Foundation and the Project Directors to convey the needs of the Project and how to best use the resources of the Foundation.

## Qualities of a Council member (required skills)

- Strong understanding of the Rust Project, its teams, processes, and ecosystem.
- Ability to prioritize others' needs, representing all viewpoints from their team.
- Ability to collaborate, communicate, delegate, and work effectively within diverse teams.
- Interest in contributing to Project operations and governance, with sufficient time and energy to dedicate to Council needs.
- Familiar with the needs of their team and subteams.
- Time management and task prioritization abilities.
- Commitment to evolving with the changing needs of the project.
- Ability to work in a low-structure environment and help construct necessary structure incrementally.
- Desire to lean into conflict and its transformation into a healthy part of collaboration.
    - Ability to collaboratively introspect one's own values and those of others, to seek out understanding and consensus.

## Term Length

- 1 year term
- Soft limit of 3 consecutive years - rotation encouraged
