# Council meeting 2024-11-08

## Attendance

- Council members: Eric Huss, TC, James Munns, Eric Holk, Josh Gould, Mark, Mara
- Observers: Santiago, David Wood, Jack Huey

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: James M.

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)
- ehuss: Project grant status
    - NOTE: In progress, has been passed to foundation and grantees have been asked to ACK
- mara: All-hands status? (eric asking)
    - NOTE:
        - Last thing that happened: 100 pounds of LEGO to play with
        - Next Steps:
            - Public info page for all-hands (to all people signed up)
              - Floor plan, days, logistics
            - Working on sponsors for rest of conf
            - This month: send out confirmations (and a few refusals) for register-ees (registrants?)
        - appx 100 people signed up from the project
        - re: "What to spend our money on"
            - Swag/merchanidise. Hoodies/sticker? Rust/Team logos?
            - All hands is a good place to do that, less shipping!
            - No plans, could use ideas here (tell Mara!)

### Executive director feedback

* We have an upcoming short deadline - Would be good to have feedback as soon as possible

#### NOTES

* Eric Huss: Should we try to ask all@ or leads for feedback on the Managing Director position (e.g. Bec)
    * Not everyone might have context
* Mark R.: +1 to send it, might have noise, but feedback being read by people
* Eric Holk: Send out feedback form to everyone? Or just ping and filter back up?
* Eric Huss:
    * Could go either way
    * Last year decision was that extra layer wasn't helpful, also time pressure
* Eric Holk:
    * Did we have issues with that last year?
    * Eric Huss: Agree
* TC: Go for all@? Thoughts on how we could get better feedback?
    * Who has best visibility? PDs (have been asked)
    * Collect feedback from all PDs? (only from Ryan so far)
* Mark R:
    * Plans to submit + share
    * Not clear "what more value the council would get" from more PD feedback
* TC:
    * PDs represent us (the project) - good to get their feedback on foundation and executive effectiveness
    * Dissenting/differing views would be useful
* Eric Huss:
    * Action: Send out form to all@ like last year

## Nominated issues

### "Approve compiler ops position" leadership-council#114

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/114
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: The question here is about defining a role for a T-compiler-ops lead and funding it.

This is expected to take 15 minutes.

https://hackmd.io/Hb8S35agRmaM4uhL9NSibg

#### NOTES

* TC:
    * Posted a job description in the private channel
    * Proposal to read it here and give feedback
* Motioned to allow observers to discuss
* Jack:
    * Proposal was worked on for a while
    * Confused at existence of a new proposal, havent had time to review
* TC:
    * Clarifications made about the role
* Eric Holk:
    * Frustration at multiple people working on this, lack of communication between stakeholders
* Jack H:
    * We should not wait more on this, this is a low risk decision
    * Clear benefit to this (pay someone for their work)
* Mark R:
    * Looks 80% of the same
    * Delegate to someone else for the specifics (Jack, TC, T-Compiler leads?)
    * Good as long as there is broad agreement - good to move forward
* Eric Holk:
    * Would like to get council off critical path
    * We can delegate to those that this role supports
* TC:
    * Felt that the old document left too much of the Council in the critical path
    * Part of the proposal was setting out clear standards for the role
    * Disagree we should make a decision on something abstract or incomplete
* Jack H:
    * Disagree with TC - written with the fact we don't know the details of this role
    * Part of the role is figuring out what this role is
* Mark R:
    * OK to spend time to read it
    * OK to approve budget of X and allow T-Compiler leads to decide
    * Haven't heard any objections to this
* Josh G:
    * Spent a lot of time on this, could spend more time bike shedding
    * Could move on and come back
* Eric Holk:
    * +1 to Mark's proposal
* TC:
    * Would prefer to FCP my proposal
* Mark:
    * Will write up today and FCP this
* TC:
    * Feel like this is a step back, could be creating additional process steps
* Mara:
    * We could just FCP TC's proposal as well

### "Implement The Update Framework for Project Signing" rfcs#3724

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3724
- **Labels:** T-cargo, T-infra, T-crates-io, I-council-nominated

TC: The question here is about whether we want to precommit that we would be willing to appoint at 9-member signing committee if this RFC were to be accepted.

TC: This might take 10 minutes.

#### NOTES

* TC: Specific question - Can we appoint a 9-member signing committee?
    * Personal feeling: we should punt and instead ask to be included
    * Proposal might not be accepted
* Eric Huss:
    * They might want to know early if the answer is "no", this might change their proposal
    * This is a big ask - is likely to be difficult
* Eric Holk:
    * Good to separate out the operational concerns
    * "Is this RFC a good idea or not?"
        * This is less relevant to the council
    * "If we need a 9-member committee - how do we get that together?"
        * This is more relevant to the council
    * Not sure who else but the council would be the right people to appoint the committee
* TC:
    * We might be the only ones, but that gets back to EHuss' feasibility points
    * Concrete proposal: Ask Council members to individually comment on the issue?
    * Commitment goes beyond infra - TC is aware of other langs that have struggled to setup/maintain
    * Might require council budget review
* Mark R:
    * Council might not be the right point for review
    * Could follow up on a leadership council issue
    * Not convinced we're the right ones to review the technical side
* TC:
    * No strong "Yes" or "No" vibes, down to individual feedback
* Mark R:
    * Maybe discuss (publicly) between TC and Mark wrt budgetary commitments, etc.

### "Document the council's internal decision making process" leadership-council#31

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31
- **Labels:** S-active, I-council-nominated

TC: This item is nominated to check in on status and labeling.  This might take 5 minutes.

#### NOTES

* Eric Huss:
    * We could just PR this to (somewhere)
    * We've been sort of ad-hoc doing it along the way
* James:
    * +1 to PR and just strike/edit things that don't seem like they match reality

### "Review the top-level teams and rearrange as appropriate" leadership-council#32

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/32
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure, I-council-nominated

TC: This item is nominated to check in on status and labeling.  This might take 5 minutes.

#### NOTES

* Eric Holk:
    * Top level teams are pretty good at this point
    * Still need to figure out Launching Pad
* James:
    * Agree Launching Pad is the biggest one
* Eric Huss:
    * This was mostly for bootstrapping the leadership council
    * Bootstrapping the launching pad was part of this
* James
    * Notes on "responsibility"
* Eric Huss:
    * Some of this was already fixed (cratesio, release changes)
    * We've resolved things outside of launching pad

### Meeting ended here

### "Establish team charters" leadership-council#44

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure, I-council-nominated

TC: This item is nominated to check in on status and labeling.  This might take 5 minutes.

### "A more stable travel grant policy" leadership-council#97

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/97
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-policy, A-foundation, I-council-nominated

TC: This item is nominated to check in on status and labeling.  This might take 5 minutes.

## P-high issues

### "Review and organize overall project team structure" leadership-council#33

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33
- **Labels:** S-active, P-high, A-project-structure

### "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" leadership-council#41

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41
- **Labels:** S-active, A-foundation, P-high

## Issues that need a council decision

### "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" leadership-council#24

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-legal

## Active issues
None.

## Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo

### "Allow messages from observers during meetings" leadership-council#110

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
