# Council meeting 2024-12-06

## Attendance

- Council members: Eric Huss, TC, James Munns, Eric Holk, Josh Gould, Mara, Mark
- Observers: Santiago, Paul Lenz

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: James Munns

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

## Announcements or custom items

### One meeting policy to open to observers

TC: We had agreed to update our policies to allow participation by observers.  That's pending me making the policy update and us FCPing it.  Until then, we've been deciding per-meeting to allow observer participation.  If it's without objection, I propose we continue that today.

TC: Hearing no objections, this meeting is open to observer participation.  In particular, we recognize and appreciate the attendance of Paul Lenz, the finance director for the Foundation, and Santiago, one of our esteemed project directors.

### Note re: Launching Pad

Progress started on the first triage pass: https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118

No input required, happy for any feedback

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

## Nominated issues

### "Council budget planning 2024Q4" leadership-council#103

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/103
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated, A-budget

TC: Eric Huss nominates this for us with this plan for discussion:

> * Discuss the expiration of the funds past 2025? Does that also count for 2024?
> * Expectations around planning. Was asked for a rough sense on what the Council would like to spend, which is essentially "we don't know", how soon do you need to know, and how detailed does that need to be?
> * When might we know more about 2025H1 grant funding, and the Fellowship Grants in 2025?
> * Update from Mara on all-hands financial needs.
> * Open floor for questions or discussion.
>
> Tracker https://hackmd.io/@rust-leadership-council/ryBmBnFCC

**NOTE REGARDING FINANCIAL DETAILS DISCUSSED IN THIS SECTION**: Numbers mentioned here are **NOT** a commitment from the Foundation nor the Leadership Council, and reflects current estimates of budget planning. All numbers and planning discussed are subject to change at any time in the future.

* Eric Huss: Get more clarity on questions:
    * Expiration of funds past 2025: Clarity on what that means, where does that money go?
* Paul Lenz:
    * Grant was to be spent over 2 years, 1M paying for infra and project priorities.
    * Not a huge deal to roll to 2026, more problematic past that.
    * More philosophical question: "There are project members/activities that need financial support".
    * 650k budget over two years, but not able to spend it, potential mismatch in expectations.
    * If there are needs to be spent on (in 2025), then that's good.
* Eric Huss: Did Microsoft give it with an expectation to be spent in a fixed timeframe?
* Paul Lenz:
    * No, they are not, but the board budgeted it across two years.
    * This is "just accounting", don't need a board vote for things like rolling it over.
    * Expect largest feedback from community.
* Mara:
    * Does the foundation have a 'fallback' plan for the money we don't spend?
* Paul:
    * No.
* Mara:
    * We are struggling to spend the money (so far), it'd be good to have a fallback.
    * E.g. could go to fellowships, etc.
* Paul:
    * Don't feel that this is for the foundation to decide.
    * Grant funding could be a good "sink" for excess funds.
* Mara:
    * Then the council should decide on such a fallback.
    * We need to have some kind of fallback.
* Paul:
    * Uncomfortable for the foundation to drive that fallback cliff.
    * Supportive of the Council doing so.
* Eric Holk:
    * We did discuss this (fallback to grants) when we first got the budget.
    * Investing in the project is a good idea.
* Mara:
    * Originally perceived budget as an "upper limit", now realizing it is more like a "bank account".
    * If we don't use it, it sits there.
    * Paul: It does earn interest at least!
    * We should spend it. Our job to distribute this money.
* TC: One of the challenges we've faced in spending this budget, I think, is that the budget is fixed and not necessarily recurring.  So if we spend down to zero, then we may not have any further spending discretion not just this year, but indefinitely.  Preserving this discretion is probably one reason we've been reticent to spend.  So in that context, Paul, perhaps you could give us some insight into the broader funding situation and what things might look like going forward regarding this budget.
* Paul:
    * Not advocating for spend down to zero by end of 2025.
    * Leaving some for travel budget is a good idea.
    * Broader fundraising: "I don't have a sense what it will look like to 2026".
    * We have membership dues, some bookmarked projects (security, etc).
    * Hope to have more funding for this in 2026.
    * Gaining Platinum members could have some funding earmarked for this.
    * Paul is in favor of council having this kind of budget.
* James: RFQS.
    * Are we good to discuss RFQs as a way to spend this?
* Paul:
    * +1 to how the compiler hire went.
    * Happy to support.
* Paul:
    * Looking to put 250k towards grants in 2025, some flex (just an estimate).
    * Some goes to fellowship travel.
    * Broad view: We give SOME project grants/fellowship grants out for H1 2025 goals.
        * On the order of 10kUSD.
        * Potentially 6 grants - but very dependent on planning/availability details.
        * 60k-ish total, requires some flexibility.
        * Leaves 180k for fellowships.
        * Want to start this sooner if we can. Last year slipped a bit.
        * Ideally June/July.
        * Council could add money to that.
* Paul:
    * Sent RustNL 100k for All-Hands, treating it as a pre-payment, counted towards 2025 budget.
    * Talk about how travel grant budget could be used to support people at the all hands.
* Mara:
    * Request to sit with Paul, using survey results to estimate rough budget based on needs + location.
    * Paul: Sounds good.
    * Surprising number of people didn't request support - that helps.
* Eric Huss:
    * Are things financially stable for the All-Hands? Confident things will go smoothly?
    * Mara: Yes, big things are taken care of; have budget left.
    * Mara: Pre-payment made things easy and go smoothly.
* TC: What's the structure of how these funds are allocated, in particular given that the All-Hands is somewhat colocated with the RustNL conference?
* Mara: RustNL is the Dutch foundation entity ("Stichting Rust Nederland").
    * They are the organizers of the event.
    * All-hands is separate venue from the conference.
    * Venue + food for all-hands are paid for by the Foundation.
    * Conference (rest of RustWeek) is paid for by sponsors (of the conference).
* TC: Paul, in the financials that we publish, how are we breaking down this 100k spend?
* Paul: We would need those details from RustNL; it would be useful to share those numbers (high level).
* Paul: Probably wouldn't be available until after the event.
* Mara: For the invoice to the Rust Foundation, it's just "single line item of 100k".
* Paul: Foundation is fine with that.
* Mara: If Council wants more, that'll have to come from RustNL. How much detail do we want?
* TC: It would be useful to have one more layer of detail beyond that.  What I think about here is educating our future selves and future councils about what things cost and what to expect.  In that light, it'd be useful to publish the spending actuals with detail on e.g. what went to venue, food, etc.
* Mara: Easier to make a pie chart afterwards, if this is for "learning" and not "book keeping" purposes.
* TC: Sounds right.
* Paul:
    * What Paul needs: ballpark number for expenditures for budgeting.
    * Very rough placeholders are okay, this is just for reporting.
    * Two chronological gates:
        * When H1'25 goals are approved: will need to check with council if there is need/desire for using council funds to augment.
        * Same again for June/July for additional grants/fellowships.
    * Could be influenced by actual applications: We can choose to augment if necessary.
* TC: Here are some general thoughts on how we might approach budgeting and spending.  One of our challenges, I think, is having visibility is the effectiveness of our past actions.  E.g., when we spend money on the grants and fellowships program, we might ask how well that spending benefited the project.  If, dollar for dollar, we knew that it had higher leverage than, e.g., hiring people full time to do similar work, then it would probably be easy for our future selves to spend more in that way.  Conversely, if it did not, then we might look at how to improve that program or how to spend the money elsewhere.
* TC: We might also want to think carefully about what our priorities are as a project.  For example, here are some places where I have visibility on where we could spend money.  The project is working on a specification for Rust.  This has relevance to the Safety-Critical Initiative, and also to teams like lang, opsem, and others.  We've been employing a specification contractor, but only for about 20 hours a month.  To achieve our goals, we probably need to pay one or more people to do this full time.  The question, then, is whether this is a priority for the project overall and whether the money for this should come from us.
* TC: Or consider the edition.  The crater runs we do are key to ensuring that we make a quality release.  Right now we do these with everything batched together, but this makes it difficult to disentangle problems and puts a lot of load on Eric Huss.  We'd like to be able to do these runs on a per-item basis, but this will require some investment in tooling.  Is this the kind of priority to which we should allocate funding from the project?
* TC: These are just examples, but it's the kind of questions I have in mind when thinking through how we might start by talking through and clarifying our priorities.
* James: Also "maintenance" things instead of just "project goal" stuff.
* Eric Huss:
    * Good to look back and measure effectiveness.
    * Lean on Paul's feedback and experience regarding the effectiveness of the grant programs, since they collect a lot of information on that.
    * Have received good feedback on the travel grants.
* Eric Huss:
    * To Paul: Anything that was said today that needs to not be public?
* Paul: The specific forward looking numbers aren't something that the Foundation can commit to at this time.
* TC: Is it OK if we keep the rough numbers in our minutes but add appropriate disclaimers to that effect?
* Paul: Yes, that would be OK.

### "Approve changes to the COPYRIGHT notices shipped with Rust" leadership-council#120

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/120
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: Jonathan Pallant is proposing to change how the licensing of Rust is communicated in the repository.

#### NOTES

* Mark:
    * Don't have visibility, if it's a no-op, why MCP? If not, not clear how to review.
* Eric Holk:
    * Do we have time pressure or release targeted for this?
    * Should we invite Jonathan to discuss?
* Eric Huss:
    * In general the COPYRIGHT file has been generally wrong, so updating that would be great.
    * It is moving in the direction Eric Huss would do.
    * Note re: ownership, there is no legal entity called "The Rust Project Contributors".
    * Unclear whether that should be removed or not (has gone back and forth in the past).
* Eric Holk:
    * Main thing Jonathan is asking: Changing how the license is expressed.
        * Unclear if this is a change in just formatting or meaningful.
        * Addition of 7MiB HTML file is more of an ops question.
    * Is the big question just "are we on board with this?"
* TC: There are two things here where I see the council as positioned to act.  One is on the substantive point from Eric Huss about how to best express that the copyright is owned by the various contributors to Rust.  We can settle that question, perhaps after seeking input from counsel for the Foundation.  Two is that we can express directional support for this work.  That is, support for cleaning up the copyright situation and for using tooling to do that.  We could invite Jonathan and Foundation counsel to a follow-up meeting.
* James:
    * When people want "Council Vibes", we should invite them so we don't have a no-op mention of it in the meeting.
* TC: That sounds right to me.  If it sounds right to the council, I'll invite Jonathan to the next meeting, and I'll ask Bec for her thoughts on whether Foundation counsel might join our meeting or whether there's a better way to seek their input.
* Eric Huss:
    * Could be Abi who handles this, not sure what answers we could get in a sync meeting.
    * Maybe better to prepare set of questions and bounce to lawyers.
* TC: Indeed.  We'll ask about that.
* TC: On the particular question, though we should seek counsel, on a first impression, saying "copyright the Rust project contributors" seems fine.  There are other projects that do this.  All that we're trying to indicate is that people need to check the git history as the copyright is owned by each contributor.
    * Seems fine? Good to get a specific answer.
* Eric Holk:
    * That is a concrete question we can ask now (instead of waiting for the next meeting).

### "A more stable travel grant policy" leadership-council#97

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/97
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-policy, A-foundation, I-council-nominated

TC: We had discussed this, and Eric Huss has put forward a PR for our review:

https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/122

(Meeting ended here.)

### "Establish team charters" leadership-council#44

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure, I-council-nominated

### "Implement The Update Framework for Project Signing" rfcs#3724

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3724
- **Labels:** T-cargo, T-infra, T-crates-io, I-council-nominated

## P-high issues

### "Review and organize overall project team structure" leadership-council#33

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33
- **Labels:** S-active, P-high, A-project-structure

### "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" leadership-council#41

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41
- **Labels:** S-active, A-foundation, P-high

## Issues that need a council decision

### "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" leadership-council#24

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-legal

## Active issues

### "Document the council's internal decision making process" leadership-council#31

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31
- **Labels:** S-active

### "Find homes for launching pad teams" leadership-council#118

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118
- **Labels:** S-active, A-teams, A-project-structure

## Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo

### "Allow messages from observers during meetings" leadership-council#110

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council

### "Update more steps for the PD elections" leadership-council#121

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/121

### "Remove "experimental" status of the travel grant policy" leadership-council#122

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/122
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, proposed-final-comment-period, disposition-merge

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)

## Review of the minutes

TC: We'll review the minutes and check off that we're OK with them being posted next week, after giving a few days for each of us to clarify our remarks in the document.
