# Council meeting 2024-10-25

## Attendance

- Council members: Eric Huss, TC, James Munns, Eric Holk, Josh Gould, Mara, Mark
- Observers: Santiago, Urgau

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Mark

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda? yes

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

## Nominated issues

### "Schedule time for project director elections 2024" leadership-council#101

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/101
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC: We did not succeed in getting consensus on this date on Zulip.

The question on the table is:

*Proposed: We'll be doing project director elections on 1 November at our usual meeting time and place.*

There's a poll here: https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/101#issuecomment-2438061571

This should take less than five minutes.

* Mark: Infra is still figuring out who, but likely will have someone.
* TC: Should we invite Mark for a brief intro/discussion on board composition, strategy, etc.?
    * Mark: Not opposed, but probably worth including more than just me in that case.

### "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" leadership-council#24

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-legal, I-council-nominated

TC: This is expected to take fifteen minutes.  I have a sketch of a proposal for how to move this forward.

The design idea of this proposal is to keep things simple while taking a concrete step forward toward solving the outstanding problems.  We could always do more later.

Here's that sketch:

1. We want all artifacts of the Rust Project to be redistributable under the terms of `MIT OR Apache-2.0`.
    - Exceptions to this are to be approved by the council.
    - Repositories within the project should use [cargo-deny](https://github.com/EmbarkStudios/cargo-deny) or similar tooling in CI to verify license compliance and to track exceptions.
        - We'll start by simply asking all teams to please do this for the repositories they own.
2. Questions about licensing should be directed to the council.
    - E.g., PRs to add license exceptions to `deny.toml` should be marked `I-council-nominated` and `cc @rust-lang/leadership-council`.
    - For straightforward questions, knowledgeable members of the council may be able to provide an answer directly.
    - For some questions, the council may need to consider it as a group (i.e. *en banc*).
    - For other questions, the council may ask Foundation counsel to advise.
    - The council may later charter a team to handle licensing; handling this itself is an initial step to solve the immediate problem and build experience that will be useful in determining whether and how such a team should be chartered.
3. For the backlog items, the council will ask the Foundation to please draw up a plan and budget for working to solve the problems necessary so as to bring all artifacts of the project in line with item 1.

What do people think?

* TC provided an overview of the above proposal.
* James: Want feedback from people more actively involved.
* Mark: Not a fan of putting more stuff on the council. Would want to spin up a team that formally owns this.
* Eric Holk: Would like to run this by the Foundation. It sounds like there might be enough people to staff a licensing team sooner than later.
* TC: Doing it ourselves to start represents policy choices -- it feels like we need an RFC laying out the policy if we want to delegate to a team. It's hard to write that document without having made these decisions recently to build knowledge in this area. Otherwise, seems like we're just abdicating rather than communicating values from the council level.
* James: I think that delegating to a team to build the RFC etc in this space makes sense. I'm not seeing why it has to be us. Empowering people who already have more expertise seems better.
* Mark: I don't think we can build expertise here effectively, and even if we did, it would still tie us up pretty heavily -- and we're not ultimately the people who need to build that experience, it's the team that needs to build that experience.
* Eric Holk: Project goal, maybe?
* Mara: +1 for a separate group of people (even if some people from the council are there, if interested). Not expecting any meaningful disagreement with the output of that group.
* James: We'd rotate out of the council the knowledge, so it doesn't necessarily allow us to build expertise over time. A project goal makes sense to me.
* Eric Huss: There used to be a team, JoshT has always been involved (along with some others). But not clear that anyone actually wants to take responsibility for this area. I'd personally want to make the Foundation responsible for this.
* Eric Huss: We also need to figure out a strategy for dealing with conflicts of legal interpretation. Does the Foundation counsel have final say? Or can LC override them?
* Eric Holk: A project goal seems like a possible way to identify good owners (I had JoshT in mind myself but there are other good suggestions).
* TC: We should write up a new proposal and develop some consensus.
* TC: re:legal interpretation, it's fundamentally a values/tradeoffs question, doesn't seem like this could be delegated to a lawyer.
* Eric Huss: proposal -- will reach out to JoshT, Pietro, etc. and solicit recommendations on next steps.
* Mark: From my perspective, the specific licensing question seems like it *could* be delegated to the Foundation (not legal, but Foundation staff/board). It seems to me that businesses are going to care much more than any individual about the very specific licensing constraints (vs. the "vibe" which might just be "should be open source" or similar).
* James: Would prefer a public discussion on figuring out next steps. Starting to like the idea of Foundation owning it.
* TC: Overlap seems like a good idea between the teams.
* TC: I disagree that only businesses care; from my perspective there are deeper values we communicate in our licensing choices.
* Eric Holk: To me licensing for the trademarks and copyrights etc (IP in general) seems to fall squarely in the Foundation camp. Not completely delegating all of it, but much of it seems fine.
* Mara: A lot of the work here seems like *implementation/research*, not policy. For example, figuring out the actual owner of copyright for parts of std etc.
* Mara: It's possible that we'd find things that we may not want immediately public. Ferrocene looked at `core`, but not yet std/alloc/etc. A working group or Foundation aid there could make sense.

### "Allow messages from observers during meetings" leadership-council#110

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, proposed-final-comment-period, disposition-merge, I-council-nominated

TC: This might take ten minutes.

There's a proposed FCP here:

https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110#issuecomment-2408179039

There's an outstanding concern and three missing checkboxes.  There have been changes made to the text to address the raised concern.

Can we move this forward?

Mara: In the first few meetings, we had concerns over parallel conversations happening in chat. Having chat messages interjected via facilitator or similar makes more sense to me.
Mark: It feels like a half measure. If we want to hear from people, we might as well let people just talk about things (in chat or in video/audio). Not sure why we're constraining to an "ask first" measure.
TC: I think the goal of asking first lets us know what the goal of the hand raising is.
Eric Holk: Thought experiment -- would be a completely open meeting (anyone who cares can show up). We were really reluctant to do that in the early days of the council, but it seems like maybe most of the risks have not materialized.
James: Facilitator governs whether to entertain chat messages at any given point.
TC: Happy to rewrite the policy to just public if we think the FCP will pass.
James: Want to make clear that as we expand, we still retain the right to constrain.
Mara: Happy to let anyone who can currently observe allow full participation.
Eric Holk: I'm in favor of a broader change to let observers be full participants.
TC: Will update the proposal for a more full participant model for observers and re-FCP.

### "Grant proposals for 2024-2025" leadership-council#112

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/112
- **Labels:** A-foundation, I-council-nominated, A-budget

ehuss: I would like to direct a portion of the Council's budget to fund additional grants to Rust contributors. The budget for the [Fellowship Grants](https://foundation.rust-lang.org/news/announcing-the-rust-foundation-s-2024-fellows/) did not cover as many people as we would have liked.

We have four candidates that we would like to fund at $20,000 over 12 months as "Project Grants". This will come out of the $150,000 unreserved Council budget from 2024. We'll need to finalize the exact structure with the Foundation, but we are likely looking at it structured as an initial payment plus a mid-point payment contingent on how things are going (payments are unrestricted, no separate travel/hardware budget). This is also contingent on the candidates accepting the grants.

@Mark-Simulacrum and @jamesmunns and Paul Lenz have reviewed these candidates and agree that we would like to extend the grants to them.

I would like to ask the council to approve the proposed $80,000 for these grants.

Time: ~10 minutes

Eric Huss: Proposal is above, aiming to fund four more project grant applications out of Council budget.
TC: Would suggest proposing FCP on the issue.
Eric Holk: Want to make sure we have enough for the T-compiler ops proposal, otherwise seems reasonable (and looks like we have enough).
James: +1 to Eric Holk

## P-high issues

### "Review and organize overall project team structure" leadership-council#33

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33
- **Labels:** S-active, P-high, A-project-structure

### "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" leadership-council#41

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41
- **Labels:** S-active, A-foundation, P-high

## Issues that need a council decision

### "A more stable travel grant policy" leadership-council#97

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/97
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-policy, A-foundation

## Active issues

### "Document the council's internal decision making process" leadership-council#31

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31
- **Labels:** S-active

### "Review the top-level teams and rearrange as appropriate" leadership-council#32

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/32
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure

### "Establish team charters" leadership-council#44

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure

## Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo

### "Allow messages from observers during meetings" leadership-council#110

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, proposed-final-comment-period, disposition-merge, I-council-nominated

### "Add clarifications around definition of employment" leadership-council#111

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/111

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
