# Council meeting 2024-10-11

## Attendance

- Council members: Mark, James, TC, Eric Huss, Eric Holk, Josh Gould
- Observers: Santiago, Urgau

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: James

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

Turn on recording after the check-in.

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

- Status on PD elections? (maybe this can happen on the scheduling point)
    - https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2024/09/06/electing-new-project-directors.html

#### Notes

* EHolk: Announce nominees today, discussion re: blog post
* TC:
    * Three people on there we haven't checked with
    * TC reached out for ACK (1 interested, 1 surprised, 1 oustanding)

## Nominated issues

### Rust Wasm

* **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/107

#### Notes

* James: Reached out, no response yet. "RustWASM" is still a fine name wrt Trademark policy IMO

### "Do not video/audio record council meetings" leadership-council#102

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/102
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, proposed-final-comment-period, disposition-merge, I-council-nominated

TC: We have a proposed FCP for changing the policy to not record these meetings.  I nominate this for our visibility and, addressing an outstanding concern, to confirm that we're comfortable with how we've stated our reasons for this change.

I'd expect this discussion to take 5 minutes.

#### Notes

* EHuss: Plan to resolve
* TC: Will move to FCP

### "Schedule time for project director elections 2024" leadership-council#101

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/101
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: We need to schedule a time to do our project director elections for 2024.

We'd like to have our directors seated by the meeting on 12 November, and we'd like to give any new directors a couple of weeks to be able to prepare and hit the ground running.

Some members of the council who would like to be part of this discussion will not be present for the meeting on the 2024-10-25, so we may want to pick a different time.

I'd expect this discussion to take 5 minutes.

#### Notes

* TC: Want to get moving with having the elections
    * Meeting on the 25th - some council members not available
* EHolk:
    * Out of town for the 25th (Ubuntu summit speaking engagement)
    * 22nd or later?
    * Use time slot on November 1st?
    * Gives enough time to notify, get paperwork done before the first board meeting on the 12th
    * Mara and Josh are not here, we should follow up
* TC:
    * Is 12 days too few?
* Eric Huss:
    * Not a hard limit of 2 weeks, it's a courtesy
* James:
    * Raise this in Zulip?
* Mark:
    * Infra raise another member as there may be a potential conflict?
    * Mark can reach out
    * May be important for scheduling reasons
* EHolk:
    * We should have candidates on the council recuse themselves for discussion
* TC:
    * Start discussion in Zulip to confirm scheduling
    * Probably public as we may need an alt from Infra, help for scheduling
* Summary:
    * Nov 1st tentative date, subject to Zulip

### "Council budget planning 2024Q4" leadership-council#103

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/103
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: Eric Holk notes that:

> The Leadership Council has a significant budget from the Foundation that we need to decide how to spend. The main open questions are around:
>
> * Petty cash
> * Swag
> * Compiler+project ops hire

And Eric Huss nominates for us:

> I'd like to discuss spending some of this year's reserved funding for project grants.
>
> Time: ~15 minutes

#### Notes

* EHuss:
    * 150k still unreserved, 300k unspent
    * Intent: give money to people who submitted grants, but weren't accepted
    * There were some people in the "maybe" category
        * Leaned away from people funded in the past, may not be great reasoning/hard rule
    * Talked to Paul (currently AFK)
        * If we want to do it, we can't do it with the grants we just did re: timing
        * Can do it as a Project Grant Award (over a specific period of time)
        * We can do it
        * Interesting Question from Paul: "Does losing the grant have a material impact on people"
            * Hard to measure, esp w/o asking people
    * 22k per person per year
        * 4k Travel and supplies, 18-22k total
* James:
    * Previous discussion was positive (I think?)
* Eric Huss:
    * Less clearly positive, some hesitation re: prioritization of other spending
* Eric Holk:
    * Believes Eric Huss has two people specifically in mind
    * Better framing: "we're helping the foundation meet goals they didn't have budget for" rather than "we couldn't figure out how to spend the money so give it back."
* Volunteers:
    * Eric Huss needs (at least) one volunteer
    * Mark and James volunteered
* TC: What is the timeline for next steps?
* Eric Huss:
    * Paul is gone and Eric will be gone the week after
    * Will follow up when we return
* Eric Holk:
    * Process-wise, we could file an issue for each potential grant and nominate it to scope the decision
    * "Personnel discussions" are private, we can't put them in public (in the issue tracker) - may need a way to track private issues too.
* Eric Huss:
    * We will come back with a concrete proposal of the N specific projects we want to fund
* James: Reviving discussion
    * Status of Compiler Admin team hiring?
* Eric Holk:
    * Stalled, possibly on Jack wrt writing a job description
    * Would still like to see that happen
    * Would like to pay them for the work they are currently doing
* James:
    * Can we just directly ask that person to quote us for doing that job?
* Eric Holk:
    * TC has asked, process would be:
        * Person writes job
        * Compiler team reviews
        * Foundation reviews
        * Council approves budget
    * Generally a good idea to go through the process above
* TC:
    * Person would be hired under Joel
    * Joel would make sure that compiler team leads remain happy

## P-high issues

### "Review and organize overall project team structure" leadership-council#33

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33
- **Labels:** S-active, P-high, A-project-structure

#### Notes

* James
    * Still important, relevant to work I'm doing wrt "working group sunsetting"
* Eric Huss:
    * Interested in being part of this (but busy)
    * Team working on this: https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/committees/project-structure.md
    * Believe work on charters is important
* Eric Holk:
    * Like having "clear success/exit criteria" for this issue
    * This will help make it clear why we have this marked as P-High, etc.
    * Not in favor of comprehensive refactoring all at once; we've had better luck with smaller edits like merging or reparenting teams and creating new teams.
* James:
    * Positive view on charters in discussions at RustConf
* TC:
    * What does it mean to be P-High?
    * 2024 Edition: P-High get discussed in every meeting
* Eric Huss:
    * Council identified three high prio items (this is one of them), dates back to about a year ago
    * Good to have exit criteria, this issue has them
    * Possibly still good to split them out, have some things be gradual

### "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" leadership-council#41

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41
- **Labels:** S-active, A-foundation, P-high

#### Notes

* Eric Huss
    * Many of these issue come from foundation of council
    * Would be good to have Santiago talk about it?
    * Lacking direct connection between Council + Project directors?
* Eric Holk:
    * Counterpoint: Good to re-evaluate where things are, changed over the last year
    * Has a good relationship with project directors, foundation
    * What are things that are still missing?
        * Current things are still informal
        * Have a council + project directors standing meeting? Council + Foundation?
* TC:
    * +1 to Eric Huss + Eric Holk points
    * Good to re-evaluate?
* Eric Holk:
    * Write down current connection points, document the status quo?
* James:
    * Set up meetings at RustWeek?

## Issues that need a council decision

### "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" leadership-council#24

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-legal

#### Notes

* Eric Huss: Create a group to delegate this responsibility to?
* Mark: Unsure who would have the time and expertise to follow up on this?
* Eric Huss: Some folks on licensing team who may have expertise
* James:
    * Should we just have an RFQ process?
* Eric Huss:
    * Has been discussed before, this is not fun work
    * This is best served by someone that would be paid
    * Talked to Foundation about that, finding that in the budget
* TC:
    * Two things:
        * How we do this on an ongoing basis (wrt licensing)
            * More reasonable for a Council lift/maintenance
        * How we resolve the backlog
            * Not so reasonable for Council
* James:
    * Happy to lend expertise re: grant

### "A more stable travel grant policy" leadership-council#97

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/97
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-policy, A-foundation

## Active issues

### "Document the council's internal decision making process" leadership-council#31

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31
- **Labels:** S-active

### "Review the top-level teams and rearrange as appropriate" leadership-council#32

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/32
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure

### "Establish team charters" leadership-council#44

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure

## Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo

### "Do not video/audio record council meetings" leadership-council#102

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/102
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, proposed-final-comment-period, disposition-merge, I-council-nominated

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

## Check-out

Turn off recording prior to the check-out.

(Not minuted.)
