# Council meeting 2024-11-22

## Attendance

- Council members: Eric Huss, TC, James Munns, Eric Holk, Josh Gould, Mark, Mara
- Observers: Santiago

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Mark Rousskov

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: Hearing no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

### One meeting policy to open to observers

TC: We had agreed to update our policies to allow participation by observers.  That's pending me making the policy update and us FCPing it.  In the last meeting, though, we had agreed as a one-off to allow participation by observers.  I propose we adopt that for this meeting as well.

TC: Hearing no objections, this meeting is open to observer participation.  Santiago, feel free to chime in if you have something to add as we go along.

### Review of minutes process

TC: I'd like to discuss our recently revised process for reviewing the minutes at the end of meetings.

This might take 5 minutes.

TC: I generally like having some time to review and revise the encoding of my comments immediately follwing the meeting.  So reducing the pressure to entirely approve the minutes at the end of the meeting seems valuable and might produce better minutes, but of course I still want these published timely.

Mara: My work week ends right after this meeting. So pushing review later means reviewing it on Monday, not just a few hours later.

James: When notes get (significantly) updated, it seems important to make sure we get another review of those minutes before publishing, at least by one other person.

TC: When Eric Huss puts up the PR, it still needs to be approved by one other of us.  But of course, that is after making it public.  There is still perhaps a distinction between making them public and in "publishing" them as the full and final set of minutes.  My interest is in the latter; I'm fine with making them public at any point.

Eric Holk: Maybe we should have a default approval of ~Tuesday the next week? And we publish without objections?

Mara: End result seems very likely to be just no review with such a process.

TC: While I understand Mara's point, I do like the proposal from Eric Holk as a streamlining idea.  I wonder if there's some way to adjust that for Mara's concerns to make it work.

James: Maybe we keep the 5 minutes at the end, and then be less pushy on approving just then? "Public, but wants clarification" (yes to PR) vs. "Don't publish at all yet".

Mara: We could keep doing 5 minutes with a change in the meaning of the checkbox to "I'm fine publishing Monday", and doc is open to edits until then.

TC: Great.  I like that proposal.  Let's do Wednesday to give time for people who are closing up on Friday.

Mara's proposal (modulo doing Wednesday) is approved going forward.

## Nominated issues

### "Substitute for 2024-12-10 Foundation board meeting" leadership-council#117

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/117
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, proposed-final-comment-period, disposition-merge, I-council-nominated

TC: Ryan can't make the Foundation board meeting on the 10th.  Per our process, we need to agree by consensus to a substitute.

Probably this will only take a minute or two.

TC: Looks like this has just gone into FCP, so there's nothing more to discuss here.

### "How to spend GSoC 2024 money" leadership-council#116

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/116
- **Labels:** question, S-triage, I-council-nominated

TC: We have 4500 USD from the GSoC program and are being asked what to do with it.

Perhaps this will take 10 minutes.

Mara: This is small compared to our budget. Would like to spend in a way directly connected to GSoC rather than adding to general pile.

James: Preference for option (2) in the issue, evenly dividing the funds.

Eric Holk: Either option seems fine with me. Spending everything feels nice.

James Munns: Small amounts should be fine (e.g., speaker stipends have succeeded in the past). We should consider setting policy going forward too.

Mark: Let's have FCP merge proposed on the issue with a few details on proposal noted by James.

TC: We'll add this to the end of the agenda to check in on that proposed FCP and to collect checkboxes.

### "Document the council's internal decision making process" leadership-council#31

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31
- **Labels:** S-active, I-council-nominated

TC: This is nominated to review the status and labels with the goal of leaving an update on the issue.  This might take five minutes.

Eric Huss: Going to post a proposal but haven't had time to do that yet. Will post a proposal soon; adding a comment to clarify for now.

Eric Holk: We should make sure to document our actual decision threshold (e.g., rfcbot enters FCP with n-2 while on the Council commonly used =n).

TC: We should clarify that; since nothing was written down to the contrary, I myself had assumed we were operating under n-2 (with the 10-day FCP period there to collect blocking concerns) with =n being a nice to have.

### "Review the top-level teams and rearrange as appropriate" leadership-council#32

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/32
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure, I-council-nominated

TC: This is nominated to review the status and labels with the goal of leaving an update on the issue.  This might take five minutes.

James: We discussed narrowing the scope of this...

Eric Huss: Goal is to narrow to just launching pad, with slight relation to team charters.

Mara: Could be good to figure this out before the all hands to provide a timeline target.

TC: Let's just close this out in favor of a separate launching pad issue, which I think is what we may have discussed doing previously, with James as the current owner (at least on part of it).

James: Happy to get assigned, will try to get thoughts clarified by next meeting.

Eric Huss: Will take care of this.

### "Establish team charters" leadership-council#44

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure, I-council-nominated

TC: This is nominated to review the status and labels with the goal of leaving an update on the issue.  This might take five minutes.

Eric Huss: Would like to talk with James on moving forward on it.

James: Happy to chat, but probably cannot lead.

TC: In an earlier meeting (2024-08-02), I recall Mark making the point -- which I thought was excellent -- that:

> Mark: As color, one of the largest hurdles we've run into historically is that, on paper it sounds like a good thing.  But if I go to a team and ask them to do this, they'll ask, "OK, but how is that going to help me?"  And the answer generally is, that, "well, it won't; it'll go into a repository and maybe nobody will look at it for 10 years."  So we may need to connect this to something, e.g., that the charter allows the team to make grants within a particular area.

TC: I agreed with that at the time, and probably still do.

James: Definitely agreed on needing to explain why, what the incentives are, etc. David Wood has expressed some interest in helping as well.

Eric Huss: +1 as well. An additional failure mode was trying to change while documenting. A template should help get things rolling quickly. Having someone external to the team help (e.g., me) could also make things go faster.

Eric Huss: Having a charter in Cargo has really helped with defining roles, responsibilities, etc.

Eric Holk: The Rust website has a 1 sentence description for teams. Charters being there (linked?) could be a good way of making these visible (vs. in a drawer that's not looked at).

TC: Agreed.  Many of the larger teams have dedicated websites.  For those teams at least, having the teams put the charters on their own websites would help keep it within the normal management and change approval process for those teams.  That's what I'd want to do for lang, for example.

### "A more stable travel grant policy" leadership-council#97

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/97
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-policy, A-foundation, I-council-nominated

TC: This is nominated to review the status and labels with the goal of leaving an update on the issue.  This might take five minutes.

Mark: Experimental seemed like a "not sure if this will work". We seem to have enough evidence of success to make this to be ongoing into the future.

Mark: Could lower budget as part of going forward approval.

Mara: Agreed on it working well. Would prefer to find ways to use budget (e.g., increase allowed ask frequency, raise limits, advertise more, remind teams of possibility of team meetups, etc.).

Eric Holk: In favor of just dropping experimental without (current) changes.

James: Publicizing more seems good, perhaps before we raise limits.

Mara: +1.

Eric Huss: Happy to make a PR to drop the experimental label (and clarify that it will persist as long as funding is available).

Mara: Do we actually have the budget from the Foundation indefinitely? We should check with them that we're not making promises we can't keep.

Mark: The grant is one time (obviously could be re-granted). But it's not expiring per-se AFAIK. It can be kept in our bucket going forward.

Eric Huss: Will clarify with Paul how long we can hold on to our unused funds.

James: When/how should we have the conversation with the Foundation on this budget question?

Mara: Maybe we can get the Foundation commit to this as a stable program?

Eric Holk: We could also have a just 2025 Travel policy, with yearly re-approval?

TC: +1 to Eric Holk.  There's a distinction between it being experimental versus it being ongoing.  We've done the experiment.  It's now time to declare that experiment a success.  Doing that might in fact help us to ensure that this can be ongoing, because we and the Foundation can use that success to encourage the contribution of further funds.

Mara: Agreed with all of that. However, we should really push for making it a stable thing rather than just expiring at end of 2025.

Eric Holk: Having a yearly program with expectation that it will keep happening every year seems plausible.

Mara: We should strive for better. I think there's a good chance the foundation is happy to commit to more than just one year.

TC: The Foundation can't really make an indefinite commitment.  It would always be subject to cancellation.  Whether we announce it as a yearly travel policy with a default expectation that we'll do one each year or announce it as ongoing policy but that we may cancel it in any year seems mostly a matter of framing.

Eric Holk: Not having a 2026 policy would be a "we don't have the budget", not a "oops forgot to publish it".

Eric Huss: I can reach out to Paul and see what options, etc. make sense here.

### "Implement The Update Framework for Project Signing" rfcs#3724

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3724
- **Labels:** T-cargo, T-infra, T-crates-io, I-council-nominated

TC: We discussed this earlier but still need to leave a comment on the issue.

## P-high issues

### "Review and organize overall project team structure" leadership-council#33

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33
- **Labels:** S-active, P-high, A-project-structure

### "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" leadership-council#41

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41
- **Labels:** S-active, A-foundation, P-high

## Issues that need a council decision

### "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" leadership-council#24

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-legal

## Active issues
None.

## Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo

### "Allow messages from observers during meetings" leadership-council#110

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council

### "Add meeting minutes for 2024-11-08" leadership-council#115

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/115

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)

## Review of new FCPs

### GSoC

https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/116

TC: This is now in FCP.

## Review of the minutes

TC: We have the checkboxes now, and we'll proceed as we decided earlier in the meeting.
