# Council meeting 2024-12-20

## Attendance

- Council members: Eric Huss, TC, James Munns, Eric Holk, Mara, Mark, Oli
- Observers: Santiago

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Mark

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: Hearing no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

### One meeting policy to open to observers

TC: We had agreed to update our policies to allow participation by observers.  Until we document that, we've been deciding per-meeting to allow observer participation.  If it's without objection, I propose we continue that today.

TC: Hearing no objections, we'll adopt that rule for this meeting.

### Appoint substitute PD for 2025-01-14 board meeting

TC: Santiago will be out for the 2025-01-14 board meeting.  We need to appoint a substitute.

Going through the process of preparing for one of these meetings and joining one is extremely helpful for building useful context.  I'd highly recommend it to anyone able.  In fact, after the last one, I had mentioned to Ryan semi-seriously that maybe the PDs should take more days off so that we could rotate through more of the council (and perhaps we might take some days off and let the PDs fill in for us).

What this commitment entails exactly is doing some back and forth in the week ahead of the meeting to ensure you get the relevant materials and that you have the context to understand them.  It was suggested to me to ask for the slides for the previous meeting, which I did, and which were helpful.  I also set up a call with Bec the week before.  That was useful, and I'd recommend doing that.

There's a call between the PDs on Monday ahead of the meeting to go through the materials.  You'll of course want to join that.  Then the board meeting itself runs around two hours.

The important thing to do during the board call itself is to speak up and ask to have clarified anything that's not clear.  If it's not clear to you, it's probably not clear to others either.  And my sense is that the Foundation staff appreciates these questions; otherwise, I gather that they might sometimes feel they're kind of talking into a void.

There's also a call between the PDs and the staff that follows on Thursday.  You'd want to fill in for that also if Santiago will still be on vacation that day.

After the meetings, to provide continuity and "pass back the baton", you'll want to write up a summary for Santiago so that he has context on the key things learned or decided during the meetings.

TC: So, that's the commitment.  It does require carving out some time.

(Some discussion about the meeting times.)

TC: The board call itself is at a bad time for the UK and Europe, which incidentally happens to include Bec and much of the Foundation staff. But there are no good times for a call between the US, Europe, and Asia.

Mara: Also +1 to this being positive experience, rotating through makes sense.

James: I'd be interested.

James: We should capture all the details into some checklist.

TC: The next step is to create a public issue in the council repo and start an FCP for us.  We can put that at the end of the agenda then.  It's important that we agree to this early to give the time needed for James to arrange things.

James: I'll do that.

### Canceling meetings

Mark: Do we want to meet on 2025-01-03? We should decide this ahead of time.

Mara: Is there anything urgent?  Otherwise I'm inclined to skip?

Eric Holk: I propose that we cancel for a short break.

TC: Hearing objections, we'll cancel the meeting on 2025-01-03.  The next meeting is then 2025-01-17.

## Nominated issues

### "Approve changes to the COPYRIGHT notices shipped with Rust" leadership-council#120

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/120
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, proposed-final-comment-period, disposition-merge, I-council-nominated

TC: Eric Huss started an FCP.  I had discussed this matter with Bec; she ran our question by counsel, and Eric and I received the reply, which is what I had expected to hear and is to the effect that Eric described, that stating the copyright as "the Rust project contributors" is fine and makes sense in the context of the MIT license.

TC: I've also had a look at the HTML file of copyright information we'll be distributing, which Eric had generated and posted to the issue, and it looks right and reasonable to me.

TC: Anyone have questions or concerns to raise here?

Eric Holk: Generally happy to defer to others here.

TC: Looks like we've all now checked our boxes.

### "Invitations for the All-Hands" leadership-council#135

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/135
- **Labels:** P-urgent, I-council-nominated

TC: Mara, this is marked as urgent, so please urgently tell us about it.

Mara: Sooner is better for invitations, want to get these sent out.

Mara: Formal invitations help with employers etc.

Mara: Draft: https://i.imgur.com/YJSfgfs.png

Oli: Text seems OK; who do we send it to?

Mara: Let's defer the who as a second topic.

Eric Huss: Is the plan to send out paper copies?

Mara: No; that's too much effort (including gathering addresses, addressing privacy concerns, etc.); stamps are also a lot of effort. Plan is for a PDF in email.

TC: The contents look great, and it's clear you put a lot of effort into making it look professional and putting the best foot forward for the project.  I'm sure I speak for everyone here in expressing our appreciation for that.  Hearing no objections, it seems we're agreed as to the contents.

Mara: Taking the next question, "who do we send it to?"

Mara: "all@" is somewhat impersonal, maybe would be good to individually address it.

Mara: Most people in the project have signed up, and most of those who haven't look like long-inactive people.

Mara: My inclination is to send to just registered people, individually address it, and then remind "all@" to register if needed.

Mara: 112 people signed up; there are 150 spots total. It would be good to know the exact count to know what space we have for guests.

James: +1 to this plan (that is, to send the invitation to those who are "definitely coming"). What is the situation for wg-embedded?

Mara: Embedded team lead (Adam G.) should be handling wg-embedded invitations.

TC: It sounds like we're agreed about to whom we'll be sending the invitations, in terms of team members.

Mara: Money, food, etc. covers ~150 people; do we want to invite additional guests?

Mara: Project goal owners? How do we pick? Each team lead gives us a list of names?

Mara: Unconference is a separate event, so RfL etc not included. Guessing we have about 30 extra spots.

Mara: There are about 8 people who filled out the form who are contributors but not team members.  I wonder whether maybe they should just be made team members.

Mark: Perhaps we may want to invite the GSoC people?

Mara: As a starting point, do we want people who are *not* team members?

TC: Did we discuss this previously? I recall us agreeing to leave discretion to the teams on inviting guests.

Mara: We did discuss. The initial ask was to discover the spectrum of interest.

Eric Holk: An invitation to the all hands seems like a strong signal that the person should be a team member.

TC: If we have expected spare capacity, leaving some room for late sign-ups by team members, it seems reasonable to me to allow the teams to invite guests.  There are valid reasons that a team may be interested in having someone there who is not and should not (yet at least) be a team member.

Oli: Foundation employees are another interesting case.

Mara: Proposal is (1) invite registered team members for now, and (2) team leads will get asked who they want to add, and we can process those later.

TC: Hearing no objections, we adopt that plan.

Mark: We invited Foundation staff?

Mara: Yes; the current proposal is they will have a room. We've discussed with them.

Mara: Also please send feedback my way if you have it in the next few days.

---

Mara: Ad-hoc topic: Rust 10 year celebration. Should we have a leadership council presentation / short thank you / something?

Mara: Would be good to have something from LC; let's discuss async in `#council` etc.

### "Create system for collecting infrastructure user stories" leadership-council#136

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/136
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: Looks like I nominated this.  Eric Huss and I were talking about the edition, as we do, and he was talking about his work going through crater results, as he does, and we discussed how the crater results are often lacking context, and so one has to do a lot of time-consuming things to dig into them.

TC: And so then we thought, well, we're both the council, and something we've been struggling with on the council is how to make effective use of our budget, and so we thought, perhaps there's something here.  Perhaps we might want to collect "user stories" like this, of how our infrastructure could be improved in ways that would make people within the project more effective, and then act on that somehow -- not through asking more of our already overworked volunteer infra contributors, but through finding ways to either efficiently direct the activities of our paid infrastructure staff, to have reason and direction for expanding that staff, or to contract or otherwise pay for this kind of work.

TC: There's no ask for a decision here; this is simply a prompt for discussion.  What do people think?

Mark: We have a bunch of things that need human time (including reviewer time!). There are 2 team full-time Foundation employed team members on infra.

Mark: Key problem is often the materialization of the idea, not the first step of generating it. In particular, the hard part is often finding trusted people to do the work.

Oli: The test suite seems like an example of something that could use prolonged investment rather than short-lived (until things change in their lives/interests) spikes. We've often had cases where we already had trusted people doing the work, but then those people ended up getting jobs and stepping away from the work. That seems like the kind of problem we could help to address.

Eric Holk: This seems similar to the async vision doc; it had a bunch of such stories and proved useful. We could expand on that. We could solicit PRs to a repo to collect the stories; we had a lot of uptake there on the async vision doc.

James: Call for RFQs seems like a very related idea.

Mark: Let's make sure to include things that aren't necessarily infra things.

Mara: A "T-design" team seems like it could be related, some kind of UX-adjacent area?

TC: This feels more like infra to me -- it's not really related to design of language. These are things that support project contributors, not external facing work.

Mara: Making the tooling is probably infra, but figuring out what the tooling serves, managing the content etc., is probably "T-design"?

TC: Interesting.  That's not how I see it.  I see a distinction between the inward facing and the outward facing.  Teams like lang, libs-api, cargo, etc. are designing the things shipped to users.  The infra team, on the other hand, does work that supports the project itself and those in it.  That's also the nature of the ask here.  These seem rather different scopes, in an analogous way to how companies generally separate engineering from IT.

James: Launching pad also sees some of this -- wg-security-response and triage seem like "project services" (inward facing).

James: How is developing or working *on* Rust (rather than *in* Rust) challenging?

TC: Something to think about.  Moving right along.

### Approve James as a substitute for Santiago at the board meeting

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/144

TC: James has started an FCP for us.  It looks like we've now all checkd our boxes.  Thanks James for volunteering here.

(Meeting ended here.)

### "Establish team charters" leadership-council#44

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure, I-council-nominated

### "A more stable travel grant policy" leadership-council#97

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/97
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-policy, A-foundation, I-council-nominated

## P-high issues

### "Review and organize overall project team structure" leadership-council#33

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33
- **Labels:** S-active, P-high, A-project-structure

### "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" leadership-council#41

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41
- **Labels:** S-active, A-foundation, P-high

## Issues that need a council decision

### "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" leadership-council#24

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-legal

## Active issues

### "Document the council's internal decision making process" leadership-council#31

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31
- **Labels:** S-active

### "Find homes for launching pad teams" leadership-council#118

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118
- **Labels:** S-active, A-teams, A-project-structure

## Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo

### "Allow messages from observers during meetings" leadership-council#110

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council

### "Remove "experimental" status of the travel grant policy" leadership-council#122

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/122
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, finished-final-comment-period, disposition-merge, to-announce

### "Update steps for new directors to add to team database" leadership-council#134

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/134

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

TC: Hearing none.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)

## Review of the minutes

TC: We'll review the minutes and check off that we're OK with them being posted next week, after giving a few days for each of us to clarify our remarks in the document.

TC: We have 7 boxes checked.  The minutes are approved to be published next week, after people have a few days to review and revise.
