# Council meeting 2025-09-26

## Attendance

- Council members: TC, Josh Stone, Jakub Ber√°nek, Eric Huss, James Munns, Mara Bos
- Observers: Tomas Sedovic, Mark Rousskov, Lori Lorusso

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Tomas Sedovic

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: Hearing support and no objections the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

### Vibe check on Rust "Technical Director" role

James: I went to Rust China Conf, had a conversation with Sid of Futurewei. They brought up the idea of having a dedicated "face of the project" person. They would be on-call for PR quotes, get sent to conferences. Non-Rust events. Non-decision making face of the project. Be that a role we can staff so they can have part/full time. Justify traveling and showing up on immediate notice. If we need a pull quote for this newspaper in 48 hours. Sometimes we can go to the Foundation but there's balance of: is that a statement of the Project or the Foundation etc. Talked to folks there: the overall vibes was good. But most of them were employed by Futurewei. Is this something we want to discuss publicly? Thoughts?

Mara: We should discuss this in public. The private Council channel should not be used much. Everything should be public by default. It would be useful to have this. This should be paid position. But if we have the money, we should spend that money on other positions -- maintainers, reviewers. A lot of people lost their jobs recently.

James: I agree with being it public. In terms of funding priority, I can definitely see that. The other side of that pitch is having someone who can do that outreach might be a force multiplier for the Foundation. You can send someone like Bec (Rebecca Rumbul) and the technical representative to society groups etc. But I see what you're saying.

TC: I agree with Mara that it should be public. I also agree on the prioritization question. I think there's a set of needs that this request is trying to meet. In terms of the outreach and communication this role could do. I'm not sure having a singular individual is the best way to solve this. This could carry risks and challenges that may be difficult to mitigate. Can we address this through a combination of other mechanisms. One of the reason I'm happy with the Foundation hiring Lori in particular is her inreach and outreach role that she's doing with the Project. The Content team we recently chartered can elevate many voices in the Project. It acts as a more pluralistic way that reflects how we operate typically. Tomas's roles with being familiar with many things within the project and is a good person to know whom to ask and has the technical background where he can speak to things. I think Bec is a reasonable person to poll within 48 hours. Maybe not about the technical questions, but I don't necessarily think anyone should give short-notice answers about technical questions. So I think there may be existing and other prospective solutions to the needs that this request is trying to address.

Lori: I really appreciate this being brought to the table. This is something every corporate office needs to deal with. I think this is what the value of the Leadership Council brings. There are people here across the world. Having that is always helpful. And having the private leadership channel -- I'd always go to the Leadership Council on this. You were elected to represent the project as a whole. And you represent your respective teams. And having Tomas and me can help figure out whom to reach out to as well. At my previous role we started with the CTO, then it would go to the product managers. I think this is absolutely needed and to your point TC there are so many people who can fulfill this role. But there are so many of you that we need an avenue for people to disperse these questions to. Being able to rely on the LC or someone you deem is the way to go. But formalize it more.

Josh: One more existing role: Joel Marcey. He's literally director of technology for the Foundation side of things. He should be filling that role as well. The role is not expected to have any decision power so "director" is not the right term. When Lori says that having Council do PR work I don't know whether I'd be excited to do that. There are different skills required and we'd have to be careful what this role actually is doing.

James: Thank you. Taking this public and being careful to outline the requirements and desires separately from a proposed implementation is good. I think if you're looking specifically for the voice of the Project it's hard for even Joel to speak on that. If we don't have an answer to the question, the people asking questions will fill that for us. They will go to whomever is familiar to them. I'll take it public for now if no one has any notes or comments about that. I'll talk to Lori about "what would you have liked to have happened in the past" -- that would be very useful for shaking that out.

Lori: The Rust Innovation Labs announcement example: we went to all the directors, asked whether they're going to RustConf, there's going to be media there. Identify our main people and thought leadership points we want to represent from the project. Scott ended up getting quoted and that was perfect.

Mara: One more thought: I feel if someone comes with an idea like this -- if it's a concrete idea it'd be better if they posted it somewhere public (https://internals.rust-lang.org/, RFC, etc.) rather than whispering it to someone at a conference and us discussing it here. Encourage people to post things publicly and then we can respond. That way they can discuss/defend their own idea directly, and we don't have to guess at their motivations.

## Nominated issues

### "Project Director elections 2025" leadership-council#225

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/225
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

Tomas: We have the election planned for next Friday; that would be the 3rd of October.  One thing I wanted to check with you -- does the current time work for you?  And how long do these run?

TC: We ran about 90 minutes last year.

Eric: It never went below 90 minutes. That's a minimum.

James: Last time it was resolved quickly, but then we had a longer meta discussion. I remember it taking 90 minutes, but a lot of that wasn't a back-and-forth on the candidates.

TC: OK, hearing no problems with the time, we'll schedule for next week at this same time and place.

Mara: I'd like to see someone from the lang team.

Tomas: Would you mind if I did that as the facilitator?

Tomas: Separate channel?

TC: We didn't do that in the past.

Mara: Could be useful if you want to share something in advance.

James: Let's delegate that to Tomas.


### "Start leadership council selections" leadership-council#211

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/211
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: Eric, can we close this out?

Eric: I've already closed it out.

TC: Leadership Council is confirmed.

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated, A-program-management

Tomas: The biggest thing is probably the RfL meetup; Kangregos.  It was really useful in terms of getting to know everyone.  It was good to meet Greg Kroah-Hartman.  Learning what they're struggling with and what's on their mind was good.  Tyler Mandry was there as well; he's also on the Content Team, and we did interviews there.  Miguel Ojeda, the leader of the RfL project, was really grateful that the Project sent Tyler and myself there; it sent a strong message of commitment from the Project toward RfL.

Lori: Since you mentioned the content team and what you had to explain the teams for how various teams work. That sounds like a great opportunity for the Content team of the general summary of how things work.

James: If you're going to do that, at RustConf two years ago Jack and myself talked through that. I can link you those slides and recording.

* https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/12xeMuDvFiiSD3fdxS-Xp0Bqfa81tU9qIQtVxBQuGNkg/edit?usp=sharing

Mara: Related to Rust for Linux: Greg Kroah-Hartman (Linus' second in command) confirmed that he's coming to the Rust All-Hands.

### "Discuss Rust Society proposal" leadership-council#159

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/159
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

James: Started making some progress. I've started pinging people about the last call for objections around Rust Society. Started pinging teams. There's a couple I'm recommending to stay in the Launching Pad. This Week in Rust. Possibly joining forces with the Content team. There's been team PRs approving people to move to the launching pad. Adding the survey team as a cross-cutting team. Other teams such as wg-cli and wg-gamedev. In the next weeks I'll put together a list of who stays in the launching pad. I haven't heard any negative comments other than on the name "Rust Society" so we'll likely bikeshed that. I'm avoiding the "Community team" as that's another bundle of wires to unwind. There are people there who aren't active but have things that are important to the project. I'll write that down. I'll try to close the easiest ones, then unwind who's staying in the launching pad and then figure out how to handle the teams under the community umbrella. I expect an update in the next couple of meetings.

James: I think it's worth consolidating the discussion so when we actually make decisions we can have a coherent view.

TC: Thanks for doing that.

### "Planning and resolution for 2026 Project Priorities budget" leadership-council#183

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/183
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, finished-final-comment-period, disposition-merge, to-announce, I-council-nominated, A-budget

TC: Let's combine this with the next item and discuss it there.

### "Discuss Project inputs to Foundation three year strategy" leadership-council#197

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/197
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, A-foundation, I-council-nominated

TC: I was on the Project Director / staff call yesterday. One of the topics was the three-year strategy and budget planning and how those are going to be handled. Ahead of the next board meeting is going to be the on-site that the Foundation staff is going to do.

Lori: We have our Foundation off-site starting on October 19/20th (Monday). We'll be kicking off our Foundation budget. And one of the topics is going to be our strategy moving forward. We have an idea of what we're trying to do, what was accomplished, what we missed, what we can do better. Now that we have the Foundation established and we have better lines of communication with the Project. How can we align this with the project, what does the Project wants to see, what's the 3-5 year goal for the Project. From the high level would be great to see what the Project wants to see in an of itself. And what are the short-term goals that would make that possible. We're looking at what end users want. Looking at all the surveys. Looking at Vision and Goals. Are all these short-term H2 goals or are there things that are important going forward that Foundation could help. We'll talk about how to get companies more budget coming in so we can fund the initiatives we care about. From my side of things I'm heavily focused on communication and synergy with the project. Paying maintainers, where are holes, how we can recruit people from companies.

TC: One of the things that came up was: how do we distinguish Foundation's 3-year strategy from its mission. A lot of the statements were very missioney -- "the foundation should support the success and maintainability of the Project". Also, the degree to which the Foundation's goal is *not* supporting the Project but bringing rust to people, companies. That it's the success of Rust that defines the success of the Foundation. For my part, the Foundation does have this dual mission. But I see a win-win where the Foundation would be able to grow its capacity to fund programs. To reach out to companies and stakeholders, bring them out to the project. That creates a good environment for the Foundation to do the outreach, collect members and resources. That we can then use to create a better toolchain, better language. There is a virtuous cycle here. We need to agree what are the things we can do at the strategic level and to achieve  us goal. And the other thing is supporting maintainers. We've recently had a significant loss of maintainers.

TC: With respect to the budget I'm going to write down our needs for the project. We'll look at what we've done before. we want to fund the travel budget for the $100k, we'll want to continue fund the compiler-ops position. Because we have Tomas's position funding for the next year, it's going to create a step function for the next year. We also want to grow the program. The original idea was bigger than what we have, but we scaled it down due to uncertainty around funding. We talked about what we'd like to see in terms of funding for the All Hands. We want to fund the travel budget, but in the past we've funded more than that.

TC: What did I miss in terms of other things that should be numbers in this document? And what are our thoughts with respect to this document?

Lori: Would it be pertinent of sharing the PD notes with the LC?

TC: Please, it would be wonderful to share that.

Eric: Did you mention project grants?

TC: Thank you! I think we should put project grants into it. Lori what did we spend on project grants last year (2024)?

Eric: It stopped this month.

Lori: There was $100k set aside for project grants in 2025. And I can't tell you off the top of my head what is left but I'll talk to Abi Broom.

Eric: The project grants for the Council we spent $80k last year. The Foundation spent a larger chunk of money. What we're talking here is the entire program: what would it take to run the entire program.

TC: Lori, last year we've allocated additional money from the Project Priorities fund. It would be good to articulate what we spent from our money and what we spent from the Foundation. And what we've spent in total.

Eric: The project started in October last year so it straddles both 2024 and 2025.

TC: It was the October 2024 grants we paid with the $80k, right?

Eric: Yes.

TC: Any thoughts about the AllHands?

Mara: Rust NL can cover the costs. But obviously the sponsors may also put some money to the Foundation. For this year it's fine, all we need is for the Rust Foundation is to cover the travel.

James Munns: I don't know what your lead time is with the sponsors.

Mara: It will be fine.

TC: If anyone has any thoughts for what we should be asking for money for, please ping me. We'll need to have to do this asynchronously if we put it out together.

Mara: I mentioned before that Rust NL tried to start a maintainers fund for people in Europe. That's going pretty well; found some interested sponsors. If things all go well, we can start hiring 5 full-time maintainers in 2026H1.

TC: How would the money flow?

Mara: Directly to RustNL.

James: Is this going to RustNL foundation in Europe?

Mara: Yes.

### "Contributor Survey" leadership-council#222

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/222
- **Labels:** question, S-triage, I-council-nominated

TC: Jakub, did you get everything you need here?

Jakub: The only thing I need is the specific questions that we want to ask. Once we have that I'll take care of everything else. I'll write a blog post, share it, analyze the answers. I'm not sure if the questions are being already sent in. I think that was up-for discussion.

James: This is not the regular annual survey. This is about how many Rust people are paid in some capacity. Who gets paid to work on Rust, what proportion is volunteer etc.? I think there's room for discussion there if we want to discuss it async.

Mara: I feel this is related to what Lori and I discussed a week ago. Reaching out to people what they need to be a maintainer without burning out.

Lori: Yes. How do I get involved?

James: There's a leadership council question https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/222 and it links to a Zulip thread.

Mara: Wearing my RustNL hat, I'd like to know not only who's being paid directly, but also who would like to get paid.

Jakub: To actually discuss the question it would be best to create a hackmd or a pull request so we could all comment on. To not lose the ideas in a zulip thread. I can set that up.
 
James: Slight preference to PR because we can't have structured comments to hackmd. I'm really interested in that data. Thank you for picking that up.

Jakub: When we do a survey, I don't know what's the best way to reach the Project people.

James: The most effective I've seen is Mara pinging everyone every week until she gets to them all.

Mara: The best option I found was to to email all@ and then DM 20 people every day.

Jakub: We could ping people on zulip. But we don't know who actually filled out the survey. We could make the survey non-anonymous but that means going through the Foundation and that's a lot more burden.

TC: I wonder if we could think about having a sign-up option for people.

Jakub: Even if the survey is anonymous, we could have people tick a box about interest working on Rust.

Mara: If we do that we need to ask for a permission to also share that list with RustNL, Rust Foundation etc.


(The meeting ended here.)

---

## Topics we didn't get to

Nominated:

* "Explicit team membership term durations" [leadership-council#175](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/175)
* "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" [leadership-council#41](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41)
* "Establish team charters" [leadership-council#44](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44)
* "Review of All Hands 2025" [leadership-council#177](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/177)
* "Minor Editorial Proposal for Upcoming Release Notes" [leadership-council#203](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/203)

P-high issues:

* "Review and organize overall project team structure" [leadership-council#33](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33)

Issues that need a council decision:

* "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" [leadership-council#24](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24)

Active issues:

* "Document the council's internal decision making process" [leadership-council#31](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31)
* "Find homes for launching pad teams" [leadership-council#118](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118)

Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo:

* "Allow messages from observers during meetings" [leadership-council#110](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110)
* "rust-foundation-project-director.md: use more clear language" [leadership-council#215](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/215)
* "Add alumni policy" [leadership-council#218](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/218)

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

TC: Hearing none, there are no clarifications needed.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
