# Council meeting 2025-02-14

## Attendance

- Council members: TC, Eric Huss, James, Mark, Oli, Eric Holk, Mara
- Observers:

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Eric Holk

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

James Munns: I'd like to move the item about the Security Response WG to the second spot on the agenda.

TC: Hearing no objections, we'll accept the agenda with that modification.

## Announcements or custom items

### Participation by observers

TC: No observers are present, but if they were, they could participate.

### Approving the minutes by default

TC: In the last meeting, we set a policy for that meeting of auto-approving the minutes for publication end-of-day on the Wednesday following the meeting, unless objections have been raised or someone has asked for more time.

TC: We didn't have everyone present in that meeting, so we held off on making it the standing policy.  Since we have everyone here, how do we feel about making that the standing policy?

TC: Hearing some +1s and no objections, we'll adopt as the standing policy.

### Election of council representatives

Eric Huss: It's time to hold the elections for the seats now held by myself, Eric Holk, and James Munns.  I've put up a PR for a blog post about this.

TC: I've approved that PR.

## Nominated issues

### "Allocate budget to Edition/Project Goals teams in support of program management" leadership-council#151

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/151
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, proposed-final-comment-period, disposition-merge, I-council-nominated

TC: As an update on the work in progress, here's the draft description of the role.  This document is part of our ongoing discussions with our colleagues at the Foundation on the details of moving this forward.

- [Role: Rust program manager](https://hackmd.io/VGauVVEyTN2M7pS6d9YTEA)

Note in particular that the council ask here is not to approve this document.  This is one of the details being delegated.  It's provided here just for context.  If you have nits you'd like to raise on the draft, please just ping me on Zulip.

Regarding the matters of reporting, check-ins, oversight, and accountability, I've prepared a document we can discuss:

- [Reporting on the program management program](https://hackmd.io/uOAq8GfaQNeZP5jFIWKdxQ)

We've been discussing this with the Foundation, and Joel there has confirmed that there aren't any obstacles on moving forward with this.  There are some details to be worked out, of course, and we'll be continuing to discuss those.  The people at the Foundation are meeting in person this coming week, and this will be on the agenda for the discussions that will happen there.

TC: Many at the Foundation have wanted to see a program management hire for a while, but needed support from within the project.

Mark: Would be good to follow up with Foundation, since it seems like program management desire was not clearly communicated with project. On reporting, it's possible we might end up with something that's what the project wants more than what the Foundation wants. Will need to work closely with Foundation.

TC: As I understand it, those who had been part of these discussions at the Foundation felt that this would have to come from within the project to be successful. What we're doing here now is providing exactly for that.

TC: More broadly, agreed this is a communication issue. Improving communication, including between the project and the Foundation is one of the goals and likely outcomes of expanding our program management capacity.

Mark: Agree in broad strokes, but details matter.

TC: Agreed.

James: Really glad to see both documents. The only thing I'd still like to see is enumerating the escalation path if someone on the project doesn't like the project manager. Who do the leads raise concern to if they aren't happy with the project management?

TC: That's a totally reasonable ask; I'll add escalation paths to the document. Ideally people should be happy to hear from the project managers because they're solving problems. If they're being pushy or ineffective, those concerns should get raised to the edition and project goals teams. If those teams are ineffective, as usual, the escalation path is to the council. E.g., we have an item on our agenda now from someone unhappy with the Cargo team.

James: Sounds good. Putting in failure vents is important.

TC: Does that address the concern you had raised?

James: Yes, assuming we write that down.

TC: Sure thing; I'll write down exactly what we discussed here.

Eric Huss: I hope we can extend that feedback beyond just negative feedback (positive feedback also helps us give direction). Don't want to be in a situation where there's a lack of communication and six months later someone is frustrated by hasn't said anything. Want to ensure that the lines of communication are open at all times.

TC: Absolutely.

TC: Here are some things I've said before, but they're important, so I want to be sure I say them clearly.

One. We're delegating this budget to the teams for the work of these teams, according to their charters. The teams' plan to make these hires explains the size of the ask, but the budget is being allocated to these teams, not to the hires. For example, if the teams need to hire a graphic designer for a few weeks in support of program management efforts, that would come out of this.

This is something I'd like to see us do more of. It's best if we can allocate budget to teams to advance their goals and then let those teams decide how to invest the money to best accomplish that.

Two. This budget is for the remainder of 2025. Since it's unlikely we'll start spending this before Q2, the yearly run rate might be higher than 200k. In making the ask, we were estimating a max annualized run rate of around 240k. That is, there's a difference between three quarters and four, and we don't want anyone to be surprised when the ask for 2026 comes in above 200k to maintain the same level.

Three. We're planning for this to be ongoing, and we're making arrangements accordingly. Doing otherwise would be to risk a self-fulfilling outcome. Of course, all things at the end of the day require the money being available, but the idea here is for this to be the kind of success in which everyone sees and continues to see value. It's important for us on the council to kickstart this work from our budget, but long term, whose budget it comes out of is a kind of a technicality. Perhaps we'll continue to fund it from our side and the Foundation will help fund our budget enough to do that. Perhaps it will be funded directy from the Foundation side.

Four. We may not spend all the allocated funds. We'll keep the council informed about this. We don't want to cheap out on these hires, so we've set out what we think we might need here, but we intend to be as efficient as possible. If we can get the job done while returning funds so they may be spent for other purposes, we'll do so.

James: Sounds reasonable. Let's not exceed the budget though, maybe start with 6 months and review contract after that, etc.

TC: The ask here is for the 2025 budget. We'll of course make a separate ask for a 2026 budget.

James: Great, but we'll need to approve the increase when that happens.

TC: Of course only what's been approved will be spent. The point here is just making clear the difference between three quarters and four.

Mark: I'll read the doc async to make sure the concerns I've raised are resolved.

### "[launching-pad] Find a home for the Security Response WG" leadership-council#141

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/141
- **Labels:** A-teams, I-council-nominated

James: WG-security-response doesn't have a good home, they could go with T-infra, but it's not a great fit. Several teams and working groups under launching pad don't fit in the higher structure. Usually it's a small group of people, who are fairly autonomous, with cross cutting concerns. Manish offers some context that teams were originally drawn out by size of teams and size of efforts, but since then teams have wanted to combine based on shared interest and function. This is in tension with wanting to keep the number of council seats small. Some question of whether we keep the current rule of each top level team gets a council rep. For discussion: Does it make sense to make new teams for cross-cutting concerns? e.g. T-ops.

TC: Over the course of the discussion, I've warmed to the idea that perhaps the main problem with the launching pad is its name. That is, perhaps we should in fact just rename it and keep it around. We'd still want to move things out of it when those things do fit reasonably with another team, and I'm happy with the moves we've made so far, e.g. by putting under lang-docs other language documentation efforts. Additionally, some remaining groups within the launching pad probably don't need to be part of the project directly. With a better name, the launching pad effectively is the same as another proposal we've discussed that there could be multiple top level teams that share a council rep.

James: T-util? Every project has a bunch of `util` folders that have things that are useful that don't fit anywhere.

TC: As background for why I've warmed here, one reason is that I'm happy with the size of the council now, and I don't want to make it too much larger. There's also a question of council balance. I see the mission of the Rust Project as designing and building the Rust language and its related tooling and infrastructure. The council balance should reflect, numerically, these priorities. Security work (that's separate from what's already inherent in the work of existing teams), as important as that is, is ultimately an ancillary and supportive function. That teams under launching pad would be pseudo top-level seems plenty enough to handle this.

James: It does seem reasonable to have a cross cutting team. Okay if that's what launching pad becomes. Important to have representation for cross cutting concerns because issues keep coming up. This is the source of a lot areas where we've had trouble figuring out the organization. Maybe "T-ops"?

TC: I wouldn't call the team ops, but otherwise it sounds good.

Mark: It's worth raising what JD and Joel brought up that security is important enough not to be in this grouping. I disagree, personally, but want to make sure the point is considered.

Eric Huss: Should the launching pad have members or a lead? Who makes the decision for what happens under launching pad, as teams grow? Is it the council rep? Should there be leads? The Council was structured such that there shouldn't be an expectation that the Representative shoulders a lot of burden doing work, but without a lead, they would in essence be responsible for doing things.

TC: My inclination is not to add members, e.g. as devtools has. I don't see a lot of value in umbrella teams with no cohesive mission. It's hard to say who should really be a member of such umbrella teams, and if they're not well connected to the work of their subteams, they're not well equipped to handle issues that arise. In these cases, we should probably just acknowledge that the council is the right fallback, and hope that issues don't actually come up too often.

James: I agree. Council delegates to subteam leads. But need to make sure we clarify this in the "bylaws" of whatever this becomes.

Eric Holk: On the question of whether the launching pad has members, I think of the membership of the launching pad team is the amalgamation of the members of the teams it contains.  If they wanted to have a team lead, that seems within their collective purview.

TC: Agreed.

Eric Holk: I'm liking this idea of keeping around the launching pad in some form more than I expected that I would.

Eric Holk: In terms of security, it seems there may be a marketing aspect in terms of making it somewhat prominent.

James Munns: Important to say that the council is still delegating; we're delegating to security response. Desire paths comes to mind; the launching pad has basically become the path of desire.

Mark: On optics, maybe we amend the council RFC to say teams can choose to not send a representative or share a representative. We could put all these teams are under the council but self organize to all share a single rep.

James: 10 minutes left and I'd like to touch on the next item. If no objections, I'll write up a summary of what we've talked about. Start working towards an RFC.

TC: To be clear, that's that we'd still keep some pressure to remove things from launching pad, but we'll keep it around.

James: Yes, and that we'll remove the goal of it dissolving itself from the T-lanching-pad charter.

### "GPU working group" leadership-council#155

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/155
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

James: This relates to outreach, etc., and domain working groups, like wg-embedded, etc. There's desire to have a GPU working group. As a project we've been going away from that model. We received some private communication about this that rhymes with what I hear on embedded where companies will come and want to be involved. We should make a policy decision in whether we want room for people that are advocates for Rust in their ecosystem. I think there's value in this. Giving people a seat tends to make them be a hero for you. This doesn't fit well with the charter of the project, but seems worth considering towards the long term health of the project.

TC: Here's a proposal for how to break this down, inspired by our success in working with Rust for Linux. I think of this as having a set of customers of the project. What's part of the project are things that produce an artifact for the project. If you're not doing this, you're still important, but a customer. We listen to and involve our customers. For RfL, we made a marker team and Zulip stream. We have ongoing calls with them. RfL doesn't really want to be a part of our project but they want a seat at the table to communicate shared goals with the relevant teams. We'll be able to do this customer management better as we build our program management capabilities.

James: That's one way of looking at it, but I don't completely agree. I don't want to over-index on deliverables. There are other things that aren't deliverable but help the long term health of the project. Communication is hard to put a finger on but it's valuable. With RfL, there's one group to talk to, but for embedded there are like 27 chip manufacturers, so it may not scale. Don't need to get into details, but lets leave this for more discussion.

TC: When it comes to dealing with industry partners, that's where the Foundation can help, as they are with the Safety-Critical Initiative. I agree this kind of communication work is important. Let's talk more.

TC: We're at time.

### "Inconsistent handling of potentially build failing changes between different rust teams" leadership-council#145

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/145
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, proposed-final-comment-period, disposition-close, A-policy, I-council-nominated

### "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" leadership-council#41

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41
- **Labels:** S-active, A-foundation, P-high, I-council-nominated

### "Establish team charters" leadership-council#44

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure, I-council-nominated

## P-high issues

### "Review and organize overall project team structure" leadership-council#33

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33
- **Labels:** S-active, P-high, A-project-structure

## Issues that need a council decision

### "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" leadership-council#24

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-legal

## Active issues

### "Document the council's internal decision making process" leadership-council#31

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31
- **Labels:** S-active

### "Find homes for launching pad teams" leadership-council#118

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118
- **Labels:** S-active, A-teams, A-project-structure

## Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo

### "Allow messages from observers during meetings" leadership-council#110

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

TC: Hearing none, there are no clarifications.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
