# Council meeting 2025-07-18

## Attendance

- Council members: oli, Eric Huss, TC, Josh Stone, Mark Rousskov, Mara
- Observers: Gracie Gregory

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Tomas Sedovic

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: Hearing support and no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

## Nominated issues

### "All-Hands 2026!" leadership-council#192

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/192
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: We discussed this with the Foundation board in the meeting last week.

Gracie: The board had some questions that we'd like to bring up with you. We want to think carefully about the All Hands happening year over year at the same place. We don't want to appear to be showing preference to one location -- especially one hosted by one associate member.

Gracie: The travel grant policy means every project member has only one grant a year. If the All Hands happens in the same place, there's risk that the same people will exhaust the travel grant on the same event every year. There's concern about sponsors not considering other locations.

TC: To clarify, the ask of the Council related only to the 2026 All Hands rather than an ongoing year-over-year commitment.

oli: Can you repeat the sponsors concern?

Gracie: Our understanding was that prospective sponsors were being asked not to consider other locations.

TC: That's not something we specifically discussed. We were asked to not recognize other potential "all hands" events in 2026 as official, and while that might have effect on how sponsors behave, we were not being asked to otherwise influence the behavior of sponsors.

Mara: If the Rust Foundation cannot fund it, RustNL can fund this on their own. The only thing we need is the travel grant program. The "people using up the travel grant program" issue is going to be likely there regardless. Even if it's not an all hands, a lot of people will want to come to RustNL. And that goes for other events too. We're not committing to making this a yearly ongoing thing. This is about 2026. If we do do it in the Netherlands, I want to book the venue next week if possible. It saves a huge amount of effort organizing it in the same place -- we know how to make it run smoothly. I won't be able to participate in organizing it in another place.

oli: Being in the first two (Mozilla-organized) all hands has been great. The repetition is beneficial to individuals as well.

Josh: Regarding RustNL popularity -- its popularity is likely helped by the All Hands being there.

Mara: I agree but we shouldnt't say that we'll make RustNL less popular by not hosting the All Hands there.

TC: Does the Foundation think there are ways the All Hands could be hosted differently to reduce costs, e.g. by colocating it with other events?

Gracie: To clarify: our goal is not making RustNL less popular. I do hear the desire to make it repeatable. On cost efficiency we don't have much insight and we'd love to see a breakdown of the cost before considering funding it again. It's great that there's a lot of healthy RustNL funding.

TC: Talk to us about the alternative?

Gracie: Alternatives to what? All Hands being in a place other than the Netherlands?

TC: Yes.

Gracie: Mara makes a good point about organizing it in 2026 in the same place. I was more worried about it happening there every year. What we were exploring was tying it to other events where we could boost their popularity. I don't think it makes sense to plan it next year for RustConf. But it's not off the table in the future.

Mara: TC, you've mentioned (that the Foundation had mentioned) high expenses. It's not the cheapest city, but the bookings were based on the budget we had. We can go cheaper but it's important to know ahead of time. I don't think the All Hands tickets would be an issue, RustConf tickets are five times more expensive.

Mara: Gracie, I wasn't aware you needed a more detailed breakdown. We weren't asked, but we'd be happy to provide it. We don't *need* your funding. It would be nice but we don't need it.

Mara: You said organizing events would be a benefit that would be great to spread around. But the All Hands is a Rust Project thing, not the Foundation's. The Foundation can only decide whether fund it or not.

TC: Mara, when you said RustNL doesn't need the Foundation money, does that include the travel budget?

Mara: We were still counting on the travel budget. If that didn't exist, we could still probably make it work but it would be more challenging.

oli: There was a survey at the end of the All Hands about the location. Maybe we could do a survey again and ask people why they're not coming if they're not coming.

Gracie: I don't want to misrepresent where we're coming from here. I don't want to accuse you from misholding any data from us. It's more about us realising that everything (sponsorship, etc.) needs to come in in short order so having that data would be useful.

TC: Do we have any numbers on the All Hands in terms of where people were coming from? How many tickets were transatlantic. Cost of tickets vs. lodging etc. Any sense of how moving the All Hands would affect the overall cost?

Gracie: I don't have insight into that.

Mara: In general, in the US there's more people working for employers who were more likely to fund the travel. So if you moved the event to North America, I'd expect people needing more travel grants.

TC: Interesting. That's a good insight.

Mara: I'd really like to have the confirmation, at least for 2026, as I'd like to announce it and start getting thnigs rolling.

TC: With the clarification that we're talking about All Hands for 2026 here, what further inputs would you, Gracie, want to provide?

Gracie: Mara raises a good point that we're not here to dictate anything about the All Hands. Knowing the sponsorship would be more distributed this year compared to the last year helps.

Mara: Even though the ticket prices are low, we're still making profit in the first two days. So we have enough to run it. I'd love to know if and how much will the Rust Foundation fund but I don't need that today. But I really need to know whether the location is set either today or next week and I'd really love to send out the blog post next week.

Gracie: We'll be able to talk about this and let you know. I'm not trying to dictate anything here.

TC: Before we set this in stone, is there anything else you want to do? Do you anticipate coming back to us with anything that would change our decision?

Gracie: I would like to raise this discussion with my team and I'll circle back with you in short order. But ultimately the decision is up to you all.

TC: If you can get that back in the next few days, we can plan to start the FCP next week to get Mara what she needs there.

Mark: Can we start the FCP today? It's going to take 10 days. This seems like exactly the kind of comment that can be raised as a concern.

TC: Fair enough, we can propose the FCP today and start checking boxes.

Eric: One of the key factors for me was having someone who's happy to organize and run the entire event themselves. If that happens elsewhere, do you expect that you'll do it or would you expect someone from the Project to do it?

Gracie: We would be willing operationally and organizationally to run it. In 2026 there is interest.

TC: To clarify, you're saying that for 2026 there's interest at the Foundation for coordinating the All Hands event? I didn't sense confidence from you on that in the last many minutes.

Gracie: Yes. It's tricky. The Foundation in general would have interest. But I'd be responsible for executing it so I do have questions. But I do think it's possible. But from my perspective, leaving the door open for this as an option for future years is what's most important.

Mara: About the Foundation organizing this. I really feel that when you're organizing this, it needs to be someone deeply involved in the Rust project. We had a lot of questions on whom to invite. For a lot of these questions the council delegated it to me. I made a lot of decisions like that, e.g. in how to allocate rooms for the teams. I don't see the Rust Foundation doing that. I also don't see other people in the Rust Project doing that. So that's something to think about.

Gracie: I really empathise about that process. It's helpful knowing that these decisions were brought up in the Leadership Council and delegated to you. I respect that when you're stepping up to doing that you have opinions about the location. All this very hypothetical, but if we were to take on the hosting of the All Hands, then we would not want to make decisions without input from the Leadership Council and then there's the question of who'd be advising us on that.

Mara: It's not that I don't want to help out of spite. It's just that if I'm picking a room I need to drive it and imagining people in it. I'm not going to travel to another country to do that. If there isn't a complete plan I don't think we should just go for that.

TC: If one of us wants to kick off the FCP, please do, and we can check our boxes.

TC: And again, huge thanks for Mara for doing this in 2025.

Mara: Gracie, thank you for coming to this meeting giving us the extra context.

### "Discuss process for RustConf tickets for Project members" leadership-council#190

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/190
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

Gracie: We should extend free tickets to project members, including those in the Seattle area. I think that's your end goal when you brought this up Mark. We can offer 10 free tickets here.

Mark: Where did this number "10" come from?

Gracie: We need to be really mindful of our tickets sales. Last year we had many more available; this year we need to reduce it in scope, given our expenses, sponsorship, etc. That's why we wanted to lead with a larger number of discounted vs. free.

Mark: At least our Zulip discussion seemed to not have that number which is why I'm asking.

Gracie: This is new; we had that discussion on Wednesday.

Mark: What the council was looking to say was we'd get some number of free tickets and we would offer those to people willing to come who would not need to use the travel grant.

Gracie: We just want to want to be sure we're offering them to people who need them vs. people who would have them paid by their employers. We'd lean on you to approve people that would need them.

Mark: I don't have any concerns.

Gracie: What we wanted to clarify is the Seattle aspect.

TC: The concrete next step is that we'd communicate that there is a program of offering these tickets for Project members paying for these out of their own pockets, and for those people to contact us. And then you'll come back to us if more people apply than can be accommodated.

Gracie: Yes, that's perfect.

### "Item on RustConf 2025 marketing" leadership-council#199

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/199
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

Gracie shared the RustConf planning team's decision to promote the event in a limited capacity on X (@rustconf and @rust_foundation) during the RustConf planning period, with impact to be measured and plans reassessed following the event.

### "Substitute for 2025-08-12 Foundation board meeting" leadership-council#201

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/201
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC: Need to put a substitute for the August 12th Foundation board meeting. I'm happy to do it again if others want.

TC: Separately, I think it might be useful for us to have a standing policy for filling these seats at the last minute. That would have been useful for the last call where we could have substituted one more seat. But that's a discussion for another day.

TC: For the August 12th meeting, what do we think?

Josh: Is anyone else interested in filling that role? I'm happy for you to do it but I don't want to block out other people.

oli: I'd like to do it at some point but I'm on vacation on that date.

TC: Hearing no other volunteers, I propose and volunteer to do it.

(Josh and Mark support this.)

Josh: I think we're clear at least for September, because that one is cancelled for RustConf.

TC: I'll get the FCP started.

(The meeting ended here.)

---

### "Update from 2025-07-08 Foundation board meeting" leadership-council#200

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/200
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

### "Discuss Project inputs to Foundation three year strategy" leadership-council#197

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/197
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated, A-program-management

### "Discuss Rust Society proposal" leadership-council#159

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/159
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

### "Planning and resolution for 2026 Project Priorities budget" leadership-council#183

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/183
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, finished-final-comment-period, disposition-merge, to-announce, I-council-nominated, A-budget

### "Travel budget for 2025" leadership-council#182

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/182
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated, A-budget

### "Review of All Hands 2025" leadership-council#177

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/177
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

### "Explicit team membership term durations" leadership-council#175

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/175
- **Labels:** question, I-council-nominated

### "who decides on questions about the stability process?" leadership-council#180

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/180
- **Labels:** question, S-triage, I-council-nominated

### "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" leadership-council#41

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41
- **Labels:** S-active, A-foundation, P-high, I-council-nominated

### "Establish team charters" leadership-council#44

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure, I-council-nominated

## P-high issues

### "Review and organize overall project team structure" leadership-council#33

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33
- **Labels:** S-active, P-high, A-project-structure

## Issues that need a council decision

### "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" leadership-council#24

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-legal

## Active issues

### "Document the council's internal decision making process" leadership-council#31

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31
- **Labels:** S-active

### "Find homes for launching pad teams" leadership-council#118

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118
- **Labels:** S-active, A-teams, A-project-structure

## Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo

### "Allow messages from observers during meetings" leadership-council#110

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
