# Council meeting 2025-08-08

## Attendance

- Council members: Mara, TC, James Munns, Mark Rousskov, Eric Huss, Josh Stone, Nadrieril (filling in for Oli)
- Observers: Pete LeVasseur

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Tomas Sedovic

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

Eric: Our backlog has been growing. And there's also been questions people are raising. I'm a bit concerned at the moment.

TC: Which questions being raised do you have most in mind?

Eric: Editorial notes about Gaza, team leadership stuff, stability process, team membership process.

TC: The last two issues are nominated and on the agenda. The others we should file and nominate.

Eric: My main concern is the agenda is growing.

TC: Agreed. I'd noticed that and it'd concerned me too when assembling it today. Fortunately we're doing another call next Friday. Many of the items I don't think will take long, so hopefully we can get to and close those out.

TC: Otherwise, the agenda look OK?

TC: Hearing support and no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

## Nominated issues

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated, A-program-management

TC: Tomas, please give us the update.

Tomas: I've taken over the administrative work of the goals program and am getting out [the updates](https://blog.rust-lang.org/2025/08/05/july-project-goals-update/). I've published the [July PM update](https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2025/08/05/program-management-update-2025-07/). A couple things I'd like to highlight are what's going on with RfL (Rust for Linux) and providing background on what it is and why people should care.  And also the crates.io secure verification and mirroring. That's been a goal, but there was a long lag on getting updates. I've been working to make that visible and make sure that more frequent updates happen. One thing that I'm roughly taking over is all the administrative things on RfL.

TC: Great, thanks. There's a lot more to read in the July update, so I'd encourage people to have a look at that.

TC: As a reminder, we made a big investment in improving the Project's program management capacity and sustainability, and so we do these updates so as to check in the results of our investment.

TC: (Keeping the council better informed about work elsewhere is one of the goals of the program management program, and these updates serve that purpose as well.)

### "Discuss Rust Society proposal" leadership-council#159

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/159
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

James: No updates this week.

### "Discuss 2025-08-12 Foundation updates" leadership-council#207

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/207
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

We don't minute this section in detail, as the slides we're discussing are not public. However, among the things that are publicly known that we discussed were:

The Foundation's new Director of Outreach, Lori Lorusso, has started earlier this month. We invited her to introduce herself in this meeting, but she had a conflict. We'll renew this invitation for a future week.

We're working to provide input from the Project to inform the Foundation's upcoming three year strategy.

As is described in Tomas' [PM update](https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2025/08/05/program-management-update-2025-07/), there's been an agreement between representatives of the teams and the item owners on how to proceed with experimental work for TAP-16 and TUF for crates.io and Cargo.

Pete LeVasseur is now heading up the Safety-Critical Rust Consortium.

We compared the scale of RustConf 2025 to that of prior years, and we made a note to ask Foundation staff how lessons from the experience this year might affect plans in upcoming years.

Rust is now a CNA, as announced here:

https://www.cve.org/Media/News/item/news/2025/07/22/The-Rust-Project-Added-as-CNA

We talked about how we handle core ecosystem crates, like `regex`, which are part of the Project, and how we might think about working with the Foundation to organize and support the maintainership of similar crates.

We discussed how certain new funds may be earmarked, and made a note to ask about this. Such earmarking affects how funds can be allocated to other priorities.

We discussed the training program and what we know about its status and the current plans for it.

We discussed ways of sustainably funding the work of core compiler contributors, how we might work with the Foundation and other stakeholders on that, and how this might feed into our input on the Foundation's three year strategy.

### "Chartering the Content Team" leadership-council#206

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/206
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC gave a summary of the motivation and plan for the Content Team [described](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/206#issue-3303063378) in the nominated issue.

Pete: Something I found doing interviews for the Rust Vision Doc team is that asking people to talk about Rust is more effective when one has the visible backing of a team, as one can say, e.g., "I'm doing this on behalf of a team of the Project".

TC: The ask for the council is to charter the team. It'd be a pseudo-top-level team. Pete and myself would be the initial leads. We've got three other members, and we're looking for more.

James: I'm excited to see stuff on this. If this is someone publishing stuff on behalf of the Project, we should come up with a style guide, topics we do/don't make atuhoritatuive statements on. Secondly, have some writing of a plan of how we tear this down if we run out of contributors. We have some content teams (e.g. the website) that are basically not doing much. Create a contention plan if people move over etc. Also, how does this fit with things like the website.

Mara: In the past few years I've done communication on behalf of the project. I don't want to be part of this team but I can help out with advice on my past experience.

TC: James, you were on my list of people I wanted to ask whether you'd want to be involved.

James: Same as Mara. Happy to chat, be a resource people go to.

TC: I don't anticipate this group ever speaking in the Project voice. It's mostly about collecting the voices of others. On decommissioning of the team, yes, that's a general challenge we have for all teams. I'm not worried about it for now on this team, because as you'll see in the charter, this team isn't in the critical path for other work, so if it stops being effective, it's simply a matter that no more of this new content would be produced. Decommissioning would largely therefore be a no-op.

Mark: If one of the reasons of having this be a project team is that the interviewers are going to tell people they're doing tihs on behalf the Project, I do think we need to be careful.

TC: Agreed.

James: Agree with Mark -- there's the implication of speaking on behalf of the Project. I'm happy with your anwsers TC. But I want that expectation to be written down and keep an eye on if that state does change.

TC: Of course. Will do.

TC: The next step here would be to start an FCP. Any objections?

TC: Hearing no objections, I'll fire off FCP merge on it. James, some of what you mentioned is already written down in the charter (e.g. how the team is not load baring). I'll document the other points in the issue.

Pete: In terms of resources (GitHub repo to store things, etc.), that will come in later, right?

TC: Yes, any approved team in the Project can ask for resources.

### "Discuss Project inputs to Foundation three year strategy" leadership-council#197

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/197
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, A-foundation, I-council-nominated

TC: The Foundation is putting together a new strategy. It will devolve down into goals for the next three years. I'm planning to write a document on our behalf, which we'll review and FCP. I'm interested to hear from everyone on their priorities, thoughts, etc. I want to make sure I can capture them all.

TC: ...OK. I know that's a hard question. As a prompt, I'll describe some initial thoughts. What's the purpose of the Foundation? The last three years were mainly about getting it set up to operate sustainably. It's done that, but we're now still at a point where most of the money that comes in is used to keep the Foundation afloat in the ways needed to renew members and attract new ones. I.e., our "cost of sales" is high. Looking forward three years, I'd want us to aim for being in a place where the Foundation is bringing in enough revenue that it can more meaningfully support the Project. I'd like to see focus and timely execution on things like training initiative (as that's expected to be profitable). I'd like to see focus on specific consortiums and initiatives that bring in industry stakeholders to create a more target-rich environment for attracting members and donations.

TC: We sometimes worry a bit about corporate influence over the Foundation. This is a reasonable concern, as if the Foundation is engaging with industry to bring in the funds and at the same time is in control of the allocation of all funds directed toward Project activities, it could substantially skew the Project. It's in this way that the Project Priorities budget, which allows the Foundation to support the Project in directly expressing its priorities with funds, represents a "relief value" and helps to maintain alignment between the Project and the Foundation. It allows the Project to see the benefits of more industry involvement with the Foundation. It helps the Foundation to see what the priorities of the Project are and where further work to raise funds might be merited. And it helps to keep us talking with each other while being more on the same page.

TC: OK, seeing some signs of support, we'll go with that for now.

## Topics we didn't get to

Nominated:
* "Planning and resolution for 2026 Project Priorities budget" [leadership-council#183](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/183)
* "Travel budget for 2025" [leadership-council#182](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/182)
* "Explicit team membership term durations" [leadership-council#175](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/175)
* "who decides on questions about the stability process?" [leadership-council#180](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/180)
* "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" [leadership-council#41](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41)
* "Establish team charters" [leadership-council#44](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44)
* "Review of All Hands 2025" [leadership-council#177](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/177)

P-high:

* "Review and organize overall project team structure" [leadership-council#33](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33)

Issues that need a council decision:

* "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" [leadership-council#24](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24)

Active issues:

* "Document the council's internal decision making process" [leadership-council#31](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31)
* "Find homes for launching pad teams" [leadership-council#118](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118)

Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo:

* "Allow messages from observers during meetings" [leadership-council#110](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110)

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

James: For the next meeting, should we keep our place on the agenda and dive down to clear things out?

TC: I think we'll have some of the normal things to talk about next week. The Foundation board call will happen between now and then. So I'd say we'll do our normal thing but try to be conscious of these topics, and see if we can get to and close them out.

Eric: I also forgot the Council elections are coming up pretty soon. The Director elections need to be done by October. So we'd to start those in the next few weeks.

Mara: Some of them are staggered, right?

TC: As PDs, we need to replace Santiago, scottmcm, and JD.

James: Similarly, the council is staggered. I don't know who's up this time.

James: It might be four council members this time around (it was three last time).

Eric: I'm slightly concerned about the number of board directors.

TC: Me too.

TC: We're meeting again next week (Friday 18th).

James: Heads up, my calendar does't have the meeting next week. Mark manages the calendar.

TC: Nadrieril will join us next week (Oli's still out).

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
