# Council meeting 2025-01-31

## Attendance

- Council members: Eric Huss, James, Eric Holk, Mark, oli, TC
    - Mara not attending
- Observers: Santiago, Niko Matsakis

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Mark

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: Hearing no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

### Rethinking minutes review

TC: We've been reviewing the minutes after checkout, but I don't think this really works, and it causes a kind of ragged ending to the meeting.  I'd suggest either we do this before checkout, or people set aside the time to do it themselves immediately after we end.

oli: Happy to do it afterwards non-sync. Keeping the checkboxes in Zulip seems good.

Eric Holk: People didn't do the afterwards review, so it's not clear that's all that good an idea.

Mark: Maybe we can end the meeting a few minutes off the hour to let people review then?

TC: We could do that, or perhaps we could set a policy that the minutes are approved by default the Wednesday after the call unless objections have been raised.

Eric Holk: I'm OK with that, but a time bound + pinging people seems right.

James: Putting it in our regular script "have until Wednesday to approve" seems good.

Do we have agreement for auto-accepting Wednesday without objections?

Eric Holk: Would like to give Mara a chance to weigh in.

TC: OK, we'll defer this question as a matter of policy until a further meeting or to be handled async.

Eric Huss: Who would own pinging to make sure people have looked at it?

Eric Huss: I'd prefer to avoid being that person :)

James: Happy to volunteer and I will schedule a calendar reminder for myself.

TC: If it's without objection, let's adopt, for the current meeting, the policy that the minutes will be approved by default on Wednesday unless an objection has been raised.

TC: Hearing no objection to that, we'll adopt the policy for this meeting.

## Nominated issues

### Implement The Update Framework (TUF) for Project Signing

https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3724

Eric Huss: This is needed for a project goal: https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3764#issuecomment-2593395122

Eric Huss: We have the specific ask for the council to pick the quorum. Would like to suggest we delegate this job to someone else (maybe T-infra).

TC: Remind us about the situation here, if you would.

Eric Huss: This may or may not happen at all (discussion still ongoing).

Eric Huss: We are responsible for specifically picking a set of 9 people holding keys.

Mark: The question blocking the goal is the council deciding whether to do something, not selecting who those people are.  So this could include our ability to commit to decide on delegating it later.  I'm curious, Eric, do you feel otherwise?

Eric Huss: The goal is written such that we *will* pick 9 people in the next 6 months.

Niko: I think the goal was written ambitiously -- maybe would be better to frame it as *if* the RFC is approved, then the council would be on the hook for providing a mechanism (as part of RFC discussions).

James Munns: We have a later agenda item around security response and horizontal teams. Delegating seems relevant to that.

Eric Holk: People working on the RFC seem to "rightly" want us involved in picking the quorum. It also seems like we're not terribly good at hiring etc.

Eric Holk: Perhaps there is a way for the Council to weigh in on a slate rather than picking the people directly, e.g. an "advice and consent" model.

TC: Concretely, I propose that we rephrase the goal to say only that the council will be open to making *some* decision here (e.g., delegating, picking people, etc.).

Niko: Repeating back: we should edit the goal to be clear that LC is willing to work with goal owners to find a solution.

Eric Huss: Who is on the hook for making that goal change? It sounds like there is still concrete work being asked here?

oli: Wouldn't that still be in the future, e.g., the people would open an issue nominated for the council at some future date?

Mark: It's not clear to me... my sense is that we're committing to having some discussion here.

Mark: Happy to volunteer to be a council point of contact for if/when this actually happens.

James: E.g., we could say, "if this gets accepted, please come back to us with a concrete ask".

Niko: I'll update the goal.

### "Allocate budget to Edition/Project Goals teams in support of program management" leadership-council#151

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/151
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC: We have a considerable budget, of which we have not spent a significant chunk. We'd do well to invest this money in ways that are of benefit to the project. This proposal seeks to do that by supporting and expanding the kind of project-oriented program management work that is already delivering value in the context of edition management and project goals.

TC: There are two particular things we are trying to achieve:

1. Sustainability, by providing for ongoing staffing of the set up systems and standards that have been shown to work in the context of the project.
2. Increasing the capacity for program management to deliver value. We, via the Foundation, are already paying for people to do work, and often that work does not really connect with the project. It struggles to land. With better program management, we can better express our priorities as a project, better help this work to coordinate with the teams, and thereby get better value out of the money that we're already spending.

TC: In particular, it's worth mentioning that the kind of program management that works well within the project is a kind of "servant leadership". The majority of what we do is work to unblock the people doing work by ensuring that they get the support that they need from across the project, e.g. by connecting together the right people, ensuring teams know what is being done and what is needed from them, etc. This is what we would be training and expecting the people we would hire to do as well.

TC: This is a big ask, but leaving the budget unspent is not good for us, and we'll never get through this budget by spending it on only small things. By investing this chunk effectively, in this well-defined and promising way, we'll in expectation help the Foundation to raise more money to support these kind of activities.

oli: All of that sounds great! I think the general shape I'm in agreement on.

James: In favor of it, seems like a high impact way to spend the money. Making sure we delegate to "real" teams seems worthwhile (we're on track there) and creating a role that is in the right shape will help with that.

James: Would want to make sure we fund this fulfilling the wider project's needs.

TC: Of course.  It's going to be the job of the teams to hire the right people, train them well on our systems and standards, etc., so as to make a success of this.

TC: Specifically, that's the delegation here.  We don't want to be handling the details of this on the council side.

James: I do want to make sure the teams are set up prior to signing off on this, maybe including more detail in the ask here.

TC: What are we actually blocking on, concretely, prior to proposing FCP merge?  For the compiler-ops role, we deleted the details to compiler, and that worked great. That's the idea here too.  The council would be trusting the teams to handle the details.

James: Creating two new teams, and then handing the budget out immediately to those people, raises some concern for me. Maybe it's too concentrated? Who are on those teams?

Niko: The two teams do have different membership.

TC: See teams repo for details.

Mark: I would like to see some kind of feedback loop -- at least a direct next step of "circling back".

Eric Holk: LC having a final checkbox on hiring could provide another balance.

James: +1 to some kind of oversight or accountability existing.

TC: With respect to feedback to the council, of course.  I take this for granted, but we can add more detail around this.

TC: With respect to the council being part of the hiring loop, this is specifically what we're not proposing.  It's better for that to be delegated.

James: Is there any conflict of interest involved here that we would be worried about?

Eric Holk: It's a good question. ~7 people on the Council seems like enough of a checkpoint.

TC: None of the people making decisions here are available or interested to be hired for this, so there's not any conflict.  The council is delegating to people who have aligned interests in acting as stewards for the benefit of the Rust project.

Mark: Can you update the issue with a next check-in point?

TC: Yes.  The next steps are putting things into motion with respect to coordinating with the Foundation to arrange handling, advertise the role, and take other such actions toward making this happen.

TC: That is, we're expecting to move forward rapidly.

James: Checkpoints I see: (1) job description (2) approval before signing a contract.

Eric Huss: Have we talked to the Foundation?

TC: Not specifically, but we're not expecting any issue there.

Mark: Feels like there is some intermediate here... some role breakdown, especially for internal people who don't necessarily have.

Niko: Would expect some intermediate step: We have agreement from the Foundation (e.g., a manager), we have a concrete plan.

TC: From the council perspective, I think we want to be clear about the delegation and what it makes sense for us to involve ourselves in.  It wouldn't be efficient, in my view, for the council to be involved in all of the intermediate decisions.

Eric Holk: In broad strokes, it sounds like we're on board. Coming back for another check-in does feel reasonable to me.

Mark: It feels like not a big ask to go ask the Foundation, come up with a proposal, etc. - the steps Niko outlined already.

James: Setup checkboxes and go forward with this.

Mark: Happy to own fcp merge on the issue if needed.

(meeting ended here)

### "[launching-pad] Find a home for the Security Response WG" leadership-council#141

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/141
- **Labels:** A-teams, I-council-nominated

### "Inconsistent handling of potentially build failing changes between different rust teams" leadership-council#145

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/145
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, proposed-final-comment-period, disposition-close, A-policy, I-council-nominated

### "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" leadership-council#41

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41
- **Labels:** S-active, A-foundation, P-high, I-council-nominated

### "Establish team charters" leadership-council#44

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure, I-council-nominated

## P-high issues

### "Review and organize overall project team structure" leadership-council#33

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33
- **Labels:** S-active, P-high, A-project-structure

## Issues that need a council decision

### "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" leadership-council#24

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-legal

## Active issues

### "Document the council's internal decision making process" leadership-council#31

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31
- **Labels:** S-active

### "Find homes for launching pad teams" leadership-council#118

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118
- **Labels:** S-active, A-teams, A-project-structure

## Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo

### "Allow messages from observers during meetings" leadership-council#110

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

TC: Hearing none, there are no clarifications.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
