# Council meeting 2025-08-29

## Attendance

- Council members: Oli Scherer, Josh Stone, TC, Eric Huss, James Munns, Mark Rousskov, Mara Bos
- Observers: Lori Lorusso, Tomas Sedovic

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Tomas Sedovic

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: Hearing support and no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

### Council elections

https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/211

TC: Eric, is there anything we need to do on this right now?

Eric: Nothing yet, we still have a few weeks to go.

### PD elections

Tomas: We have the blog post out as well as the announcement to the mailing list.  Sent out an announcement to Zulip as well.  We've had one nomination so far -- David Wood.  I'll also be looking to get a statement from the nominees.  We have three seats to fill.

TC: I'll be standing as well, so there's two at least.

Eric: Can we get a statement from the existing PDs of whether they're interested to run?

TC: I've reached out to all three, and they confirmed they're not running for reelection.

Tomas: I have also contacted them, and confirm none of them are running.

### RustConf next week

TC: RustConf is next week. We should open the floor on this. Is there anything we should be thinking about?

Josh: I'll be the only one attending it, is that right?

Lori: I will be there too. And we have the Content team attending and conducting interviews.

TC: That team's been very active in its preparations. It's exciting to see, especially as it's brought in people new to the Project.

## Nominated issues

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated, A-program-management

Tomas: Following your approval to go to Kangrejos, I'm setting that up.  We've had a couple of RfL discussions.  The last one on Wednesday was particularly interesting because of some of the struggles they've brought up in terms of having greater flexibility to cut things out from `core`.  I have a lot of notes about things we can do that I'll bring up with the people working on `build-std` and with the libs team.  The `build-std` RFC draft has now received enough feedback from the initial reviewers; it's a massive document, so it'll take awhile.

TC: It will be exciting to have Tomas at Kangrejos. And tmandry may be there too.

### "Discuss Rust Society proposal" leadership-council#159

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/159
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC: James, how are things going on the Rust Society?

James: I had a good call with Lori about it. Based on feedback from TC, I adjusted the proposal to not restrict the membership of the admins team to just members of Society chapters. I plan to have a finished proposal before the next meeting.

TC: Lori, given your discussion with James, talk with us about how the Foundation can help on the Rust Society.

Lori: First, we clarified what this is, how it relates to the working groups, how does team graduation work. All of this coincides with the Foundation's Innovation Lab. It's a great opportunity to bring more outsiders into Rust.

James: I'll probably miss the next Council meeting because I'll be at the Rust China conference but I'll send it up before and find a stand-in for the meeting.

TC: James, is there anything you want to see happen at RustConf related to the Rust Society?

James: My plan was to soft launch this internally with the main working groups first. In the proposal for Q1/Q2 next year, we'll have an enrollment of other interested groups. I'm open for suggestions, but I was hoping for a quiet launch. If there are other people interested, feel free to send them my way.

### "Discuss messaging for upcoming RustConf announcements" leadership-council#220

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/220
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC: We discussed the RIL (Rust Innovation Lab) announcement on the private Zulip channel we share with the Foundation. Mark, what do we know here?

Mark: The latest draft looks good to me.

TC: There are two pieces. One is what we put out on our side on the Rust blog. I'm happy with the draft for that inclusive of my edits yesterday. The thrust of those edits was to give Carol permission from us to speak in the Project voice, and specifically, to say that the council was briefed, that we supported it, and that we now welcome it. Saying that we knew about this and were and are happy with it will help in demonstrating a unified front.

TC: Secondly, there's the announcement on the Foundation side. That one of course reads as a press release, and it could be filled it with quotes from Bec, the PDs, us, etc. What do people think there?

Josh: Given that we're putting out a statement on our side, probably we don't need to say something in the Foundation annoucement as well.

TC: Makes sense. OK, explicitly to confirm, we're OK with saying, from our side, that the council was briefed on this, that we supported it, and that we now welcome it. We'll be speaking in the Project voice on this.

TC: Hearing support and no objections, we're accepting this as the position of the Project. And we're happy with the draft as revised.

Eric: Do we know how much the RIL is going to cost the Foundation, both in terms of money directly and in terms of the time and attention of the staff? If people have a question of why the Foundation is spending its resources in this way, what do we say?

TC: As I understand, this is intended to be revenue neutral or positive for the Foundation. For projects to be accepted, they must be separately funded. Part of these funds will be used to pay for the administrative costs incurred by the Foundation.

Eric: People will probably have a lot of confusion around the financial aspects because it's not very clear there. I understand the announcement explicitly says more information will be coming later, so maybe that is sufficient.

TC: Lori, I remember there was a briefing document in which there are answers to questions people may ask. It would be great if this was shared with the Council privately. Would you look into this with Gracie?

Lori: Sure! I'll talk to her. And I'll look into the funding question, Eric.

TC: Lori, is there going to be a separate announcement on ARM upgrade?

Lori: There's going to be a separate announcement that ARM is going to be upgraded to the Platinum level.

### "Discuss Project inputs to Foundation three year strategy" leadership-council#197

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/197
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, A-foundation, I-council-nominated

TC: I'm still planning to write something up on this for us to review. Want to open the floor for any thoughts people may have had in the last two weeks. What should the Foundation plan to be doing in the next three years? What should the Foundation be doing every day to help the interests of the Rust Project?

TC: Lori, What sort of conversations are happening on the Foundation side?

Lori: I can only speak to what I'm working on. Gracie is working on the marketing. I'm working with Abi and Paul to figure out how do we work with the Project in terms of the Project grant budget. How does that roll out. How do we create a stronger funnel on getting new people into the Project. How can we get people apply to specific opportunities via contracts. So you can see the direct impact. How do we retool the money we have to make it more beneficial to the Project and show more impact to hopefully bring in more donations from other industries and interests. To show them what the money has done. Also how do we ensure the people coming into the funnel are solid good devs, and create a welcome home for the people so they stay and continue working on the Project?

TC: Thank you Lori. There are many things for us all to talk about regarding the project grants program.

TC: Regarding the three year strategy, this question is a good thing to circulate back to all of our teams.

### "Planning and resolution for 2026 Project Priorities budget" leadership-council#183

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/183
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, finished-final-comment-period, disposition-merge, to-announce, I-council-nominated, A-budget

TC: Lori, you and I have been talking about this. The next time this is going to come up on the Foundation side is going to be the October board meeting as the September one was canceled due to RustConf. We've talked about how to help the Foundation in terms of messaging the details of how this budget has been important to the work of the Project and to the kind of outcomes on which our stakeholders depend. What do you see as the next steps for us to build more certainty about the budget for 2026?

Lori: Paul and Abi are working on getting this sorted. They're looking at some last dollars to add in. They're looking at how the money's been used so far. What big ticket items you want to support next year and what small ticket items would be good to be supported. Getting strong direction from where you feel the biggest benefit for the Project would be. Things like the travel budget size would be great to get from you. I haven't seen any numbers yet.

TC: Let's you, I, and Eric plan to talk more about this.

### "who decides on questions about the stability process?" leadership-council#180

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/180
- **Labels:** question, S-triage, I-council-nominated

TC: Does anyone have context on this? Mark, it looks like you nominated it back in May.

Mark: This is coming from discussions around rust-booststrap. They're looking for what teams should be on an FCP given that this in principle affects many teams. I don't think we've landed on a concrete answer.

TC: You're feeling this is mostly a user interface question and maybe dev-tools can decide it?

Mark: I think Eric was saying that maybe compiler would be a better fit?

TC: Looking more closely, this is about making changes related to `RUSTC_BOOTSTRAP`. Putting on my hat as the representative for lang, I'd say anything that relates to making nightly language features more or less accessible is a lang call. Things that affect the user interface in such a way as to make things in the language seem more or less stable are fundamentally lang questions. The implementation is on the compiler side but the user interface is lang.

Oli: Absolutely, I agree with that entirely from the compiler side.

Josh: I agree on the compiler side. But if you look at this question, it's about an environment variable that would affect a lot of the ecosystem. Not sure who that affects.

TC: I know the Rust for Linux project uses this; I'd need to refresh myself on what the other things are.

TC: For my part, my takeaway is I'll read this more carefully, then I'll leave a note on the issue describing lang's interest here.

Mark: Two pieces here: one is I'm not sure @jyn514 is still interested in this. The other aspect is if we think it's fine for Lang to be the team and they could then consult other teams, I'm personally fine with that.

TC: Lang would be happy to take this. We do a lot of work with the RfL people, and we care a lot about impressions of stability. We'll pull in other teams as appropriate. If everyone's happy with that, I'll mention that as our conclusion on the issue.

TC: Hearing support and no objections, that's what we'll do.

Eric: Does the lang team have a written down set of responsibilities? And would we be interested in codifying what lang is responsible for in terms of stability/packaging of Rust?

TC: Yes, but of course we should write down more. E.g., on our own website, many policies and procedures are described. Others are in the rustc dev guide, where as part of the recent changes to add a stabilization report template we also revised language that had become outdated, replacing it with better descriptions of our current policies. Of course, it's not all written down, and we do operate a bit of a "case law" / "common law" system, where one has to look at our history of similar decisions to understand precisely what the bounds are. We'll continue to improve on centralizing the documentation of this.

TC: OK, we'll respond as above, and we'll unnominate this.

### "Explicit team membership term durations" leadership-council#175

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/175
- **Labels:** question, I-council-nominated

TC: We talked about this two weeks ago. We had some follow-up to do. Mark, where did this land?

Mark: I drafted a policy, I was willing to ping Mara on it with respect to whether it's enough. There are some edits I need to make in the PR. Let me find the link for that.

PR for that policy: https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/218

TC: That aligns with my recollection.

### "Travel budget for 2025" leadership-council#182

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/182
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated, A-budget

TC: Eric, what do we need to do here?

Eric: Last time we were going to ask people if they were going to use more travel budget for the rest of the year. But considering RustConf is coming and going I'm not sure it's really sensible now. Are there any other conferences coming up for the rest of the year?

Mara: We have EuroRust in Paris.

Lori: Yeah we had a few requests for EuroRust. There was one person in a country we can't give funds to. The rest were within budget.

Eric: The question was about the fact that people used their $2000 for their travel budget, and we wanted to discuss whether we can give extra for the conferences toward the end of the year or whether we want to hold back what we have now for next year given uncertainties.

TC: Probably, at this point, it makes sense to continue to approve travel grant requests according to our existing policy and just see where we end up. We'll continue to work to make more travel budget available in 2026 as part of extending the Project Priorities budget.

### "Minor Editorial Proposal for Upcoming Release Notes" leadership-council#203

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/203
- **Labels:** question, S-triage, I-council-nominated

TC: We discussed this last time. We've agreed on the outcome, but we wanted to write down a policy before unnominating this, and we haven't written the policy down yet.

### "Review of All Hands 2025" leadership-council#177

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/177
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: My understanding is we have a retrospective written up that we're waiting to publish along with the announcement for the 2026 All Hands.

Mara: We had a project goals update with pictures etc. But I don't think it's enough for a blog post on its own and I wanted to combine it with the All Hands 2026 announcement. I was waiting for the All Hands website come up in the announcement. But I don't want to conflict with the RustConf event.

(The review of nominated items ended here.)

## Topics we didn't get to

Nominated:

* "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" [leadership-council#41](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41)
* "Establish team charters" [leadership-council#44](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44)

:P-high issues:

* "Review and organize overall project team structure" [leadership-council#33](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33)

Issues that need a council decision:

* "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" [leadership-council#24](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24)

Active issues:

* "Document the council's internal decision making process" [leadership-council#31](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31)
* "Find homes for launching pad teams" [leadership-council#118](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118)

Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo:

* "Allow messages from observers during meetings" [leadership-council#110](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110)
* "rust-foundation-project-director.md: use more clear language" [leadership-council#215](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/215)
* "Draft initial alumni policy" [leadership-council#218](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/218)

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

TC: Regarding the minutes, we've talked about some things here that aren't yet public, but fortunately those things will be announced before the time that our own minutes will go out next week. That's convenient and good for our own transparency.

TC: On that note, in the past when discussing matters from the Foundation board calls, we haven't been minuting those sections. Since we're doing it now so regularly, though, it seems better for us to carefully minute what we can. Often by abstracting the topic a bit, we can still give an accurate flavor of what was discussed. In the last set of minutes, I did that, and I ran the text by Bec first to confirm she didn't have any concerns. She didn't, and the minutes went out that way.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
