# Council meeting 2025-06-20

## Attendance

- Council members: Mark, Mara, Eric Huss, Oli, James, Josh, TC
- Observers: Tomas

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Tomas Sedovic

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

*We do have consensus*

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

## Nominated issues

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated, A-program-management

TC: Week three. Tomas plugged in to team meetings. Got updates going out (compiler ops). Coming up: call for rustfmt contributions -- ideally getting more people from the compiler team to pitch in -- they already know all the stuff. I had a good talk with Niko, working on the mechanisms by which Tomas can take over the management of the Goals program. Organising the build-std work and updates. May goals update PR is up for review. Tomas will write a project management update blog post by the end of the month.

Josh: Other people may come up with other things for Tomas to do. Things may develop differently from what we're expecting right now.

### "Update from 2025-06-10 Foundation board meeting" leadership-council#188

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/188
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

*TC gave an update*

### "Planning and resolution for 2026 Project Priorities budget" leadership-council#183

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/183
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, proposed-final-comment-period, disposition-merge, I-council-nominated, A-budget

TC: Wrote up a background to the resolution. Enough boxes are checked so this is in FCP but it would be great if all were there. We're resolving that this is a priority for us and we're resolving to an ongoing dialogue with the Foundation.

Oli: The doc you wrote was a great summary.

TC: We should convert it into a blogpost -- as an update and a resolution the council has adopted.

### "Discuss proposed changes to the mods team" leadership-council#185

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/185
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: There has been an earlier proposal where mod mediators became a sub-team of mod. Thought it was important that if we're renaming it, we want to make clear this is the same thing for the RFC 3392 purposes.

Oli: Initially we didn't rename it at all. We had the mods team and when we had mods-venue that was for GitHub and Zulip moderation. The `teams` repository doesn't allow enough control where teams are needed. Now when you ping `@mods-venue` it pings mods. But the only way to do that is to change the GitHub `@mods` to be the `@mods-venue`. This raised some confusion and we needed another name. I've decided to rename the file in the teams repository to reduce the confusion but that caused more confusion.

Oli: I've reverted it and only left the smallest change to get everything up and running. Now we have the `@mods` team in the `teams` repository and who gets pinged on Zulip and GitHub (@mods-venue). No changes to the RFC.

Oli: The `@mods` team on GitHub doesn't correspond to the Mods Team. But that's the same on Zulip and other venues.

Eric Huss: When I `@mods` it only notifies Niko and Mark as far as I know.

Oli: The Zulip `@mods` group is something we've never used in the past. Once the PR lands, we can automatically have the `@mods` group contain the `@mods-venue` and the actual Mods team. And we can do the same for the GitHub `@mods` group.

TC: Huge thanks to Oli to do this massive amount of work. To organise all this, have the discussions. It's important to all of us to make the team sustainable.

Oli: We're still at the minimal capacity than I wanted, but with Manish we have one more moderator. If you see someone who makes good decision somewhere -- those are good people we want to be moderators.

Erik Huss: For GitHub, what's your preferred way to get the attention of moderators? Email the moderators?

Oli: That's the right thing. This is what the web page suggests.

Eric Huss: The stuff I normally report doesn't need to be private (vandalism, spammers etc.). We want those notifications to the larger group so people can address it.

Oli: You can ping the moderators on GitHub (same on Zulip).

TC: Thanks again to Oli for that.


### "Substitute for 2025-07-08 Foundation board meeting" leadership-council#187

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/187
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: Well be substituting the meeting again for July. I'd be happy to do that but Josh you mention you'd like to do it. We also talked about project directors doing it. If you ask me, I'd probably do it.

Josh: I expressed willingness to do it but if anyone is interested, they should -- especially if they haven't done it before.

TC: Whoever does this we should coordinate with Beck about the resolution.

Josh: I'll leave it to you.

TC: I'll put up the FCP on the issue for public announcement and we'll make the decision there.

### "Travel budget for 2025" leadership-council#182

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/182
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated, A-budget

TC: Talked about this in our last call. Eric you talked to Paul about this. Where did we land on this?

Eric: We didn't have a specific decision. Still have some money left for the travel budget (about $40k I think). Most people used up their $2k per year limit. Paul doesn't think most people will be able to use it. This means we may be able to use a lot of it for the next year so we have at least some money for the next year.

Mara: If we're going to have all hands every year, we're going to run into this situation every year. People will book their budget at the beginning of the year and then they'll not have anything left for anything else. We should keep that in mind.

Mark: Last time we talked about getting some statistics from Paul on how much money was spent on RustConf, EuroRust etc. Did we get anything there?

Eric: I did talk with Paul. We don't have a lot of data. Last year I think we spent $16k total. That's the data we have but it's a bit skewed -- we just started the program and not everyone knew about it / wanted to take advantage of it / could travel to the location. Hard to know how to extrapolate it.

Mark: How about we put out a microsurvey -- if we up the limit, how many people are interested in traveling for the end of the year. I'm not sure we want to spend the budget for a few people but if a lot of people are interested then it would make more sense.

Josh: Do we know if there's a "use it or lose" it requirement here? Or is it absolutely on us to decide?

Eric: The original intent was that we use it for the two years it was budgeted for. Paul said we could carry over some of it to 2026 but we should spend most of it.

TC: The smaller amount here may fit in better for Paul to consider it reasonable to carry over. Beck had brought up that the travel grant program was very popular and appreciated. Interesting that they heard that feedback.

Eric: I'm in favour of getting more data on what people need. That would give us more insight to what our expectations might be and we could decide on whether we want to relax our limits or not.

Mark: This is one of our more successful programs. This might be something we can get justified / funded more easily from the Foundation. Keeping money in our pockets and trying to get the Foundation / company to allocate more money sounds like something that might not be a Project funded.

James: From a marketing proposal it's great to have a line item that's very successful. And it would be something the Foundation might be easy to fundraise for.

TC: I think it's good to keep these popular programs in the council budget. It's easier to sell the package of "here's why you should fund the Project budget". Then we can use it as an argument to continue funding. If all the successful things are taken out of the council budget, we'd lose the low hanging fruit. If we are to continue the council budget, we have to keep successful things in.

Mark: I think that's fair, but maybe that's a distinction in name. If we say this has been super successful -- getting some standing ~$5k per platinum or more allocated for us that could help us with an ongoing budget. The sooner we can get an ongoing budget going, the better. And this is a great opportunity.

TC: The plan I have in my head on continuing the project priorities budget is to package this as an ask for the platinum members. If they all are asked it may be easier. It's also easier to ask for a value than to get them to write the cheque at all. We show them the package and they could see this as an easy thing to sign. Eric, how does that sound?

Eric: If we're just going to have a quick ask to figure out how much people will going to spend -- I think so.


### "Review of All Hands 2025" leadership-council#177

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/177
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: How do you think we can start quantifying the value?

Mara: I sent out this form (feedback on shared screen). I think I have answers for the next time (when, where). We have enough data to share with the Foundation on why this is useful.

TC: I think this is great to put in a blog post. And then trying to connect it to things we can connect to our sponsors (C++ interopt, AI -- the things that happened there).

Mara: I wasn't in those discussions but we do have a lot of meeting notes. Might be good to check with people who were working on those -- whether they're now unblocked -- maybe they can get them to communicate how the all hands was helpful.

James: Next time maybe we can get a box where people can put cards with what helped. Might be a fun way to gamify this a bit.

TC: Tomas, maybe you can work with Mara on this -- go over the notes, reach out to people?

Tomas: Sounds good to me.

Mara: Question on place: "how did you like the city" -- nothing below 6 (out of 10). More than half 10/10. Question: "if we do it next year at the same time in the same place" no one said they wouldn't come. I'm meeting with the RustNL to organise the next RustWeek. We'll assume for now that that will include the next All-Hands, unless anyone has any big concerns.

Josh: I want to point out the bias of having asked the people who could make it and not those who couldn't.

TC: My bias is to make this as easy as we can on Mara.


### "Discuss Rust Society proposal" leadership-council#159

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/159
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

### "Explicit team membership term durations" leadership-council#175

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/175
- **Labels:** question, I-council-nominated

### "who decides on questions about the stability process?" leadership-council#180

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/180
- **Labels:** question, S-triage, I-council-nominated

### "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" leadership-council#41

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41
- **Labels:** S-active, A-foundation, P-high, I-council-nominated

### "Establish team charters" leadership-council#44

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure, I-council-nominated

## P-high issues

### "Review and organize overall project team structure" leadership-council#33

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33
- **Labels:** S-active, P-high, A-project-structure

## Issues that need a council decision

### "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" leadership-council#24

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-legal

## Active issues

### "Document the council's internal decision making process" leadership-council#31

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31
- **Labels:** S-active

### "Find homes for launching pad teams" leadership-council#118

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118
- **Labels:** S-active, A-teams, A-project-structure

## Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo

### "Allow messages from observers during meetings" leadership-council#110

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
