# Council meeting 2025-08-15

## Attendance

- Council members: Eric Huss, James Munns, Nadrieril (filling in for Oli), TC, Josh Stone, Mara Bos, Mark Rousskov
- Observers: Lori Lorusso

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Tomas Sedovic

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: We have a build-up of the nominated queue. We'll start off with the three Foundation items and then work through the rest of the nominated queue. Eric, did I miss any items from our queue that shoud be nominated?

Eric: I don't recall offhand.

Eric: Can we approve the council selection date for September 26 and have someone merge the blog post?

TC: I'll look at the blog post after the meeting. How do you want to go about the approval of the dates you mentioned?

Eric: The September 26 is the deadline for teams to pick their choices.

TC: Do you want to file an issue for the Leadership Council? We should have at least that to document this.

Eric: Will do.

TC: Does that date sound OK for everyone?

TC: I'm seeing support and no objections. Eric, the date is approved.

TC: Any other notes on the agenda? Hearing none, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

## Nominated issues

### "Welcome to and introduction of Lori Lorusso" leadership-council#210

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/210
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: Lori is the new Director of Outreach at the Foundation. She and I had a chance to talk on Tuesday. She's great, and I'm excited to have her on our team.

Lori: This is my second week at the Rust Foundation. I've been in community and open source outreach for a lot of my life. I'd love to be as embedded with the Project as possible. I'll be working with the Content team. Working with Tomas on knowing whos's who. I'm immersed in the Cloud Native community, I'm a CNCF Ambassador, I've worked in devops, and with the OpenSSF on security... there's a lot of opportunity getting people using Rust in other projects in other Foundations to get into the Rust Project.

TC: Thank you Lori. For everyone here, feel free to reach out to her. She's on Zulip (@Lori Lorusso).

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated, A-program-management

Tomas: I've been nominated as the facilitator for the PD election.  I've been looking at the dates.  I have a draft timeline that I'm reviewing with TC.  Early next week we'll get out the blog post and whatnot.

There was a build-std meeting yesterday.  That's been a longstanding issue that the Rust for Linux (RfL) people need, among others.  The proposal that David Wood and others have been working on has been firmed up.  The feedback is narrowing into smaller details.  David has proposed to open it up to other people.  We're sharing it with people on other teams and with people working on RfL.  It's a large set of documents.  Once we've hammered out anything that they've had issues with, we'll open the RFC proper.

### "Discuss Rust Society proposal" leadership-council#159

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/159
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

James: Currently working on writing things up for this:

https://gist.github.com/jamesmunns/872ae9f878f0ede608bcdc8ccc3847e6

It should be ready to share soon-ish.

James: It's a rough draft of a charter for Rust Society. And a write-up of the rollout plan. I hope to polish it up, circulate with working groups, bring it up to the council. Then open the issue to found the Society admins team. People can look at it but it's in progress. I'll ping the Council when it's ready.

TC: Have you had the chance to talk with Lori yet?

James: I have not yet.

TC: Lori, you'll definitely want to chat with James about the Rust Society.

### "Planning and resolution for 2026 Project Priorities budget" leadership-council#183

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/183
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, finished-final-comment-period, disposition-merge, to-announce, I-council-nominated, A-budget

TC: One of the things we talked about on the Foundation call is the budget planning for 2026. I asked about the timeline for that. Abi Broom, who's taking over from Paul Lenz, said she has a draft of the budget ready. There's no board meeting next month. They'll bring it up in October. They hope to have it finalized by November or December. I asked what was penciled in for the Project Priorities budget. That's one of the things that's not yet been filled in. We'll need to make sure the conversation continues on that part. This is something Lori and I talked about. She's enthused, and we'll work on this.

TC: Lori, did you have any thoughts on budget items?

Lori: I'm glad you brought that up during the board call.

Lori: Another item worth talking about is the project grants program. There's a lot of opportunity to try and rework it. There's the idea of making sure that we fund projects that are aligned with the Project's vision and goals but also make sure that the side quests / fun stuff doesn't get lost. And make sure the money is dispersed such that it moves the Project forward but also for people using Rust for smaller things. To make sure they're not lost in that equation. That's a big piece of my job I'm taking over from Paul. How can we make the Project grants program more effective.

TC: To add some context, there was a failure on our part to communicate effectively earlier this year. We had the grants program, we had people on grants, and then we stopped doing this and we didn't communicate it. There was an expectation that these grants would be issued every six months. We quietly stopped issuing them without any messaging, and that's on us, the Project leadership. Two things happened. The first, which we've discussed, is the staff at the Foundation wanted to wait for Lori to come on so that she could make it hers. And, secondly, as Lori's described, there's some desire to rethink the program by adding more visibility and accountability so as to make it more effective for the Project.

### "Discuss 2025-08-12 Foundation updates" leadership-council#207

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/207
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: In our last call, we had some questions surrounding the materials we revived ahead of the Foundation board call. As you may have seen, I shared those questions ahead of the call with the Foundation, in the channel we share with them. In the call, I ensured we answered those questions, and then I filled in those answers in the channel. Did anyone have any questions or thoughts? Anyone want to review an answer in particular?

TC: It's good we put out the questions, and we received back some good answers.

Mara: Was there anything about funding Rust maintainers?

TC: There was a lot of discussion about funding of maintainers and the current situation where we've lost or at risk of losing many maintainers. There wasn't an outcome yet but it got a lot of people thinking. To fill in context on the call, I talked about the difference between the work of maintainership and doing reviews as compared to the work of adding new features, and how these are two sides of a ledger that must balance. When people talk about funding work, they often think about funding features, but this causes the maintainers to raise their hands and say, "stop, you can't do that without expanding review capacity". People on the call found this a helpful framing. The plan is that people will be taking this back to their companies to discuss, and it will be raised again in a future call.

James: I really like that double-entry bookkeeping metaphor.

### "Discuss Project inputs to Foundation three year strategy" leadership-council#197

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/197
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, A-foundation, I-council-nominated

TC: The Foundation is working on the strategy for the next three years. This will turn into quarterly goals for people like Lori, Joel, and Bec. This defines what success looks like and how the Foundation will be held accountable by the directors on the board. The Project is both morally and structurally one of the most important stakeholders of the Foundation. We should talk about what we want to see. I plan to write up a document we can review and to which we can resolve. I'm interested to hear the thoughts of those either here or on Zulip as you have them.

Eric: Do we know whether they'll draft it in a way that we can see it before they finalize it? Also, how specific is it going to be? Is it, e.g., "we should do safety critical",  or is it higher-level than that?

TC: It's going to be a bit of both. Someone mentioned wanting to see specification work in the plan. So that's a possibility, and that would be specific.

TC: Ensuring that we see it gets to our responsibility for setting expectations of our Project Directors. If we took no other action, and weren't currently focused on improving communication, it's entire possible we'd have not have seen it. It's our responsibility to make sure this happens, and we are focused on this. Lori, let's you and I take a note on this.

Josh: I expect any early drafts from the Foundation would be private. But you said you wanted to create a document -- I'd like to see that public and share it with our team.

TC: Yes, and I recommend everyone here also reach out to the teams you represent, ahead of such a document, to describe this strategy-building process and to ask for feedback of what people want to see in it. This is something I've done with the teams I represent on the council.

TC: Also, we can do our side of sharing things with the Foundation in this process. We'll share our early drafts on the foundation-council-private channel so they can see what we're thinking.

Lori: And on the Foundation that would be really helpful. That lets us see how aligned we are and what the strategy looks like moving forward. I really appreciate you going to your teams. We'll have an offsite in October and will be going through much of the planning for this there.

### "LinkedIn page for Rust Project" leadership-council#208

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/208
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: This came from David Wood, one of the compiler team leads. He describes some benefits to having a LinkedIn page for the Project.

Mara: Sounds good, I'm happy to click the create button and we have a page. I don't think I'll be posting much but people can associate with the project etc.

James: Is this something that would be part of the content team.

Mara: We have the social media team!

TC: Yes, this would be the social media team's responsibility.

Josh Stone: Wondering how active this would need to be. Do we need someone who's curating who's claiming to be part of the Project?

Mara: On linked in you can say you work anywhere and no one checks it. We need to make sure the logo and tagline stay up-to-date. Should be very low maintenance.

TC: Mara, it seems you and the social media team are volunteering for this.

Mara: Already pressed the button. We now have an official Rust Programming Language page on LinkedIn:

https://www.linkedin.com/company/rust-lang/

TC: Great. I'll say on the issue we felt this was within the purview of the social media team.

### "Minor Editorial Proposal for Upcoming Release Notes" leadership-council#203

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/203
- **Labels:** question, S-triage, I-council-nominated

TC: Someone is asking us to say something about Gaza. We talked about this in our private channel. What do we think?

James: I mentioned in the thread that we either have a policy that we either don't do this or we do this and then how do we go about it? I want to make sure we have the follow-through. Whether we say yes/no we need to clarify how we're dealing with this.

TC: The policy I'd propose is that for us to take a position on something, it should be 1) something of relevance to the work of the Rust Project, 2) something on which we have broad alignment across the Project, and 3) something where our input on the matter might be of some value. I can think of political issues that the Rust Project might want to take a stance on, according to that policy. But the present issue would not qualify for that, and this would give us a framework for making a call on this.

Mara: I wanted to provide the context last time we did this. We only added a note twice. The second time was on the exact day that the invasion of Ukraine happened. Everyone was talking about this. We felt it would be tone-deaf to announce a release and not do anything. Not doing anything, postponing the release, changing the tone but not acknowledging it, etc. were all options, none of which would be perceived as completely neutral. I think the motivation for why we added that note was that it was happening just a few hours before the release rather than just to express a political opinion that the majority of the people held. If we have a policy, we may still run into something like that in the future.

TC: I think that's a great call-out that the last one was exceptional. Sometimes you have to acknowledge the elephant in the room. That could be part of the policy too.

Nadriel: Not much to add about that. We've discussed this with Oli. We agree with the intent behind the policy you've stated -- if there's relevance to the Project. And this isn't super relevant.

Josh: We have done this three times in fact: Black Lives Matter, the Ukraine invasion, the acknowledgment of Masa Amini protests for Iranian rights.

TC: It sounds what we want to do to close this out is to write down the policy. We won't be able to close this out immediately, but we have the next step.

### "Explicit team membership term durations" leadership-council#175

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/175
- **Labels:** question, I-council-nominated

TC: Does somebody remember the context here?

James: There was a conversation about team leads and rotations and things like that. It came out in the All Hands 2025 burnout session. The context was ensuring we have rotation for burnout reasons. Especially in teams where people feel they can't step down. Also it relates to moderation issues such as what folks should do when they find themselves ideologically opposed to who the team lead is.

TC: What do we need to do to close this out?

Mark: Some of the discussion we had on Zulip was that we wanted to look at some way to make this less of a manual process. Maybe Eric or Mara suggested something yearly -- we have an all hands and ask everyone and lean on that rather than e.g. asking everyone to say yes every January. In terms of this specific nomination my sense we don't have a concrete action right now.

TC: As far as the nomination goes, perhaps we can say that we've discussed it and the next step is for someone to put together some concrete proposal we can nominate.

TC: For my part, the general shape that Mark mentioned sounds right to me in the variant where there would be an easy "opt-out" button sent out once a year that would allow people to leave the team.

James: It also comes up in contexts of the governance docs, e.g. on the leadership contexts and term limits. None of that flows downwards. At some point we can talk about whether we want to push that consistency down the Project too.

Josh: Until now each team has been defining membership and many other things on their own. This acknowledges that every team is different, and I don't how much we want to push on that. But setting guidelines might be helpful.

James: To set out my position, I think we should have term limits for team leads for the health of the Project and health of the people working on the Project.

TC: I want to second what Josh said a minute ago.

Josh: The problem I have with explicit term limits for leads is that a lot of time a lead is doing it because someone has to and there are not any other reasonable candidates.

James: Yes, but it's also the fact that if there's someone doing it for five years, there's no way someone's able to step in easily if they have e.g. a health/family issue and leave suddenly.

Mara: Someone just mentioned using the All Hands sign-up as a way to see whether someone's active or not. We tried to do that last year and didn't figure it out in time. If we want to do this, we should start now.

James: Would it make sense to include an opt-out link in the communication? I'm happy to write-up the summary.

Mara: Last year there were a few people not replying at all to the reminders. And also people replying (to me on Zulip) that they weren't even aware they were on the team.

Mark: I'd be very comfortable with a rule that if someone like Mara reaches out to you and you don't respond, say within a month, we're going to put you on the alumni team. And if someone was away for a month, we would be happy to put you back.

TC: Agreed in spirit, but we should do this via the teams. Niko's been out for a month but it would be inappropriate to remove him without checking with the Lang team (we know where he is).

Eric: That system would also mean we'd lose people who are actively contributing (e.g. in a particular repository) but they don't use Zulip and are generally bad at responding. We could push people away who were doing things, and they might take that as a signal their help is not appreciated and not even bother reaching out to be added back. We'd just lose them.

TC: Great point.

Mara: How about I do the same as last year -- send out the email, ping people individually etc. But now I additionally let the team leads know whom we see as poeple no longer active. And then write down guidance for the team leads on e.g. people not responding for 2 months. When there are teams that don't respond, we'd go to the team a level above.

Mark: There's something similar for teams not directly part of Rust teams. We could use similar language here.

https://github.com/rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org/pull/1677

TC: I'm seconding Mara's proposal. That sounds perfect.

Mara: The important thing is to actually write some guidance for the team leads. We need to write down some tips for them on what to do after I message them with a list of inactive people.

Mark: I can take the item of drafting something.

(The meeting ended here.)

## Topics we didn't get to

Nominated:

* "who decides on questions about the stability process?" [leadership-council#180](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/180)
* "Travel budget for 2025" [leadership-council#182](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/182)
* "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" [leadership-council#41](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41)
* "Establish team charters" [leadership-council#44](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44)
* "Review of All Hands 2025" [leadership-council#177](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/177)

P-high issues:

* "Review and organize overall project team structure" [leadership-council#33](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33)

Issues that need a council decision:

* "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" [leadership-council#24](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24)

Active issues:

* "Document the council's internal decision making process" [leadership-council#31](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31)
* "Find homes for launching pad teams" [leadership-council#118](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118)

Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo:

* "Allow messages from observers during meetings" [leadership-council#110](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110)

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

TC: Do we think we've done enough here to meet in two weeks or do we want to do it weekly until we've gone through the queue?

Mara: Every week would be too much for me.

TC: We'll leave it every two weeks.

James: Is the plan for Lori to join all the meetings? Or just when invited? Or is this just introduction?

TC: For my part I would love to have Lori -- and a number of other people from the Foundation -- here.

Lori: If you're inviting I'm in. I'd love to be part of this meeting going forward.

TC: OK. That's settled then.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
