# Council meeting 2025-11-07

## Attendance

- Council members: TC, Josh Stone, Mara, Oli, James Munns, Jakub Beranek, Eric Huss
- Observers: Tshepang Mbambo, Lori Lorusso, Tomas, David Wood, Niko Matsakis, Jack Huey

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Tomas Sedovic

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

Eric: Can we quickly talk about the open source collective issue on zulip?

TC: Hearing support and no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

## Nominated issues

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated, A-program-management

Tomas: Project goals: I pushed Niko's 2025H2 blog post through the finish line and got it published. Found out a couple broken things in the rust-project-goals repo and fixed those. Opened the September and October PRs.

Tomas: I've also discussed the plans for the next round of project goals with Niko.

Tomas: I attended the inaugural FLS meeting, taking minutes as usual.

Tomas: I'm finishing up my October PM update. The remaining bit is to mention things I didn't have capacity for that having extra PM time would help make happen.

TC: There was a set of meetings Niko organized to gather feedback about Project Goals. This produced a valuable document -- the feedback stretches beyond Project goals; thanks to Niko, David Wood, and Tomas for doing that. It's worth a read.

Niko: One of the outcomes was finding that the benefits of the program were somewhat unevenly distributed. We'll be looking to find who we didn't talk with.

### "Discuss Rust Society proposal" leadership-council#159

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/159
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

James: No progress, okay to skip this week.

TC: Remind us where we've left this.

James: Started to reaching out to folks, gauge interest. Reached out for the T-society-admins group. Reached to the other t-launching-pad groups to figure out whether they want to stay there. For domain working groups or inactive teams getting confirmation that they're interested in becoming a Society team.

James: A lot of the teams weren't active so a lot of this is figuring things out. Haven't gotten to the teams that may be more complicated to sort out.

Lori: I was following along the security working group, there's a whole thread about security. Are we looking at the groups under launching pad to see if they have more intrinsic value to the Project more than initially thought of? The Cyber Resilience Act (CRA) coming in next year, Rust security features people are interested in. Is there an opportunity to make them more active?

James: There's the security response team (handling CVE reports) and folks handling the rustsec list. If the project wants T-Security, the Launching Pad is a place to start. T-Security-Response will stay in the Launching Pad.

Lori: I think there should be a broader security discussion. We just had the crates.io phishing attempt happen. From the outsider looking into the project it seems odd there's no security team listed.

James: There's the Security Response team and then there's the Secure Code team. But if there's more demand, we can spin up another team.

Josh: For the Security Response team, we're three overworked people doing reactive things. We're not looking at proactive stuff. There was a charter, but that fell by the wayside. I'd like to make sure the paid Foundation people working with security earmarked funds are included.

James: I agree it's a separate conversation, but it would fit well in the reworked launching pad. +1 from me.

### "Contributor Survey" leadership-council#222

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/222
- **Labels:** question, S-triage, I-council-nominated

Jakub: The survey launched last week. We have 100+ responses, most of them complete. I hoped we'd get at least 150, but 100 isn't a bad number. I've prepared charts and analysis. I've already shared it with Council. The survey is still open, but the responses are trickling in very slowly now.

Jack: Are they shared with the PDs and the Foundation too or just the Council?

Jakub: I will share the results with the PDs and the Foundation too but we don't have the final results yet.

David: Maybe we can send out another reminder?

Jakub: I don't know how it was shared with the individual teams. If there's someone you think didn't get the announcement please share it with them. And I'll re-share it with all@

TC: Thanks for putting it together. That will be a valuable piece of information.

### "Discuss 2025-11-11 Foundation updates" leadership-council#238

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/238
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: Starting with the Management update. The Maintainer fund announcement came out.

(The Council was informed on a potential new member of the Rust Innovation Lab, and some context around that. This wasn't announced publicly yet.)

TC: Lori, tell us about the Foundation offsite please.

Lori: It was great having everyone in the same room. We had a discussion around membership benefits and how we can increase the appeal of being a member of the Rust Foundation. We have regular meetings about that. We want to make sure that we can stay stable against attrition (foundation donations are often the first cuts to happen). We had good talks about budgeting, there were a lot of exercises. It was great getting together. We talked about the strategy. Restructuring RustConf.

TC: What was discussed about RustConf?

Lori: We talked about the identity of what RustConf should be. Is it for users, members, both? How do we set it apart form other conferences. How can we increase tracks, decrease the amount of keynotes. Addressing all the feedback we got.

TC: Talking about the Strategic Priorities 2026-2028. Lori, did Bec put it in the final form?

Lori: Yes.

TC: They came up with five priorities: Stable infrastructure, sustainable maintenance, adoption&innovation, maximizing membership, empowering the community.

Lori: We're constantly looking at ways to make the infrastructure stable and efficient. A lot of the work that's been done already is great. We do a lot with in-kind donations, but we also have hard costs.

Lori: Sustainable maintenance: the maintainers fund, making sure people working on Rust can get paid doing it and that the Foundation raises the funds necessary to make it possible.

Lori: Adoption and innovation: the Rust Innovation Lab is great. We need more people coming in Rust to make the prior two points a reality. How can we make an easier entry pathway for people to adopt Rust. That includes C++ interop, safety critical etc.

Lori: Membership: we want to work on what we have and build on that.

Lori: Empowering the Community: Rust Global. How can we help the Rust communities with what they need (Rust Africa, Rust Latin America). Support them so they have easier pathways for financing and speakers.

TC: Having seen a disconnect between the Project and some of its users. How do you see that fitting in?

Lori: There is a disconnect between the Project and those adopting Rust. They don't see a pathway forward. They don't understand why their features aren't being implemented. They don't understand tech debt, maintenance needs. They need to understand the support you need to provide to get features in. Oli mentioned some of things taking ten years to get done. We need to make people understand that things can't get done as quickly.

James: I don't think there was Project representation at the onsite. Is that something that would make sense going forward?

Lori: It's a different discussion at a different venue. Having a day to meet with the Project people would be relevant. Especially at the last day because there were things to discuss that. But we also need some alone time for the team sync.

Oli: Reading the slides was confusing. Your explanation helped.

Lori: It's odd to having our board call before your board call. Normally the PDs would explain to you what happened at the board meeting.

Mara: Please let me know if you want to organise Rust Foundation sessions at the All Hands.

Lori: I love it! I'll work with you to make that happen.

TC: Lori, regarding filling in the context that's why I appreciate having you here. So we understand this and we can help you contextualize it to the community and speak in one voice.

James: We're retooling that process and having Lori and PDs having in the call is great. If the process is awkward, we should fix that. Having PDs explain it is great. Making sure PDs understand this is also important.

Niko: I'm not sure Lori what you meant about PDs explaining. Did you meant the board call?

Lori: We would have the board call, PDs would hear all the stuff and then assume you would be able to bring out the context.

Niko: That makes sense. I like seeing the priorities written down and I'll sit with them. I'd appreciate turning it from a focus area to "here are some of the things we'd like to get done".

Lori: This is to give the board an idea on what they are. And then there will be an actual strategic document that nails them down.

Niko: Wearing my Project contributor hat, it hasn't been clear to me how to contribute to this set of goals, how to give feedback.

Lori: We did hold a couple of calls with the LC and PDs to ask for their feedback. We shared the thoughts in a zulip channel where Carol and Ryan weighted on. Bringing this up at the board call would be good to make sure where we're drafting stuff, to make sure it's filled.

Niko: I was thinking about broader input. Outside of this circle.

TC: Is the part of the plan that this could be shared to the Project and get feedback from the Project as a whole before it gets to the board?

Lori: That's Bec's call. But you're elected by the Project.

David: As soon as you include the whole Project, there's going to be a lot of bikeshedding. The LC is elected to represent the project. Having everything be that large would complicate things.

Niko: There's a big difference between saying "everyone has a decision making power" but it's hard for the LC to effectively represent if they can't share drafts with the people they're representing. But if we want to have fewer people surprised and left out, they need to have to have a chance to weigh in. I think this is something we should engage as a Project. We have the same issue with complex RFCs. You do want to have a broad input even if you can't make a decision by vote. Same here: you want to hear the broad input.

TC: I was going to say the exactly the same thing.

Mara: We're terrible at doing this whole representation thing. The people we're representing aren't used to being represented. All the discussions in the Rust project is direct and open. I don't think anyone from the Libs team has come to me asking me to make sure I bring something in front of the Council, for example. And the different teams have much different sizes. Pretty much all people I represent are also on the compiler team, so they don't have one clear point of contact. I agree with everything Niko was saying.

TC: To agree and amplify, our roles as representatives is to coach and encourage people to come to us with that stuff. But we have to encourage it and to do that we have to share the information.

Niko: Exactly. "In order to speak for everyone, the LC needs to be able to listen to everyone". And right now they can't because they can't share the context.

Jack: I have had people come up to me with feedback and thoughts and make sure they're heard somewhere. But often we don't have a good mechanism for making people feel they've been heard. The contributor survey is great, but how do we make people feel like we're listening to what they said there?

TC: That was a great discussion. We hit the most important items on the deck I think. Have a look at the others and let's discuss on zulip.


### Open source collective

https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/240

https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/392734-council/topic/Open.20Source.20Collective.20monetary.20rewards.20for.20rust-lang.20crates/with/554352970

Eric: There's this ecosystem fund that funds Rust project with. They offered money for several crates. It's about $400 USD. If we want it, we need to explicitly accept it. Do we want to accept it? What do we do with it? There's been discussion on zulip that people weren't getting the funds.

Mara: If we were to add these to a big pile, it's going to have zero impact. But if it goes directly to some maintainers it could make a actual difference.

TC: We'll queue that up and have a look at it async.


## Topics we didn't get to

Nominated:

* "Discuss Project inputs to Foundation three year strategy" [leadership-council#197](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/197)
* "Discussion: Updating and Formalizing Council Expections for Project Director Communication" [leadership-council#230](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/230)
* "Discuss Resident Project Maintainer idea" [leadership-council#233](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/233)
* "Discussing "Project Representative" needs" [leadership-council#226](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/226)
* "Add Graydon Hoare to the Rust website" [leadership-council#231](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/231)
* "Consider linking to the community discord from rust-lang.org" [leadership-council#219](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/219)
* "Minor Editorial Proposal for Upcoming Release Notes" [leadership-council#203](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/203)
* "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" [leadership-council#41](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41)
* "Establish team charters" [leadership-council#44](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44)
* "Explicit team membership term durations" [leadership-council#175](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/175)
* "Review of All Hands 2025" [leadership-council#177](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/177)

P-high issues:

None.

Issues that need a council decision:

* "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" [leadership-council#24](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24)

Active issues:

* "Document the council's internal decision making process" [leadership-council#31](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31)

* "Find homes for launching pad teams" [leadership-council#118](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118)

Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo:

* "Allow messages from observers during meetings" [leadership-council#110](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110)

* "rust-foundation-project-director.md: use more clear language" [leadership-council#215](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/215)

* "Add alumni policy" [leadership-council#218](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/218)

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

(There were no requests for clarification)

## Project Priorities Budget meeting next week.

TC: We're having a special meeting *next week* and we'll have Lori, Abi and Bec here.

Lori: I don't think we need to have a bigger audience. I can add people who want to be there.

TC: What's the reason for not having a bigger audience?

Lori: We're going over the Project Priorities budget. You had an issue open, I'm not sure if we open the meeting up to more people if we're going to revisit things other that you want to focus on.

TC: You're worried about distractions from other people?

Lori: Yes. I'd like to stay on the Project Priorities budget.

TC: When we talked about it being Council call, it'd be like this. Where LC and PDs are the main ones speaking. Does that alleviate the concern?

Lori: I've got to go. Let's discuss this async.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
