# Council meeting 2025-01-17

## Attendance

- Council members: Mara, TC, Eric Huss, James, Mark, Oli, Eric Holk
- Observers:

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Mark

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: Hearing no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

### Report on Foundation board meeting

TC: Let's hear from James, who served as the substitute for Santiago in the last board meeting.

James: Variety of discussions. Some discussion with PDs on formalizing Council/PD relationship more.

James: Good meeting overall, expecting budget etc. discussion in February.

James: TRACTOR is maybe coming back as a proposal to the board in a month or two.

TC: It'd be good for us to work out how to arrange to do this kind of update in every council meeting after a board call.

## Nominated issues

### "Travel grant programme limits (for All-Hands / RustWeek)" leadership-council#148

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/148
- **Labels:** P-urgent, I-council-nominated

TC: Mara nominates:

> We currently require council approval for any travel grant request above $1000, but since most people are staying for a full week at the All-Hands / RustWeek, most of the requests' hotel costs will already exceed that. Should we lift the limit?

Mara: Expecting lots of requests >$1000 (reasonably, due to longer duration). Would like a formal decision on what value or when Paul should seek re-approval.

Mara: $1800/week for hotel in the same city, $1200 in nearby city (+short train ride).

Mark: Do we end up saving on the separate city given train tickets?

Mara: 5 euros/trip, so works out to be reasonably cheaper.

Eric Holk: Close by seems better (walking distance).

TC: Overall, I would suggest we agree to defer to Paul's judgment on accepting any reasonable requests.  As he's receiving many of these, he'll have a lot of data on which to decide what's ordinary.  He should bring to us anything that's not.

Eric Holk: High-order bit is to make it feasible for everyone to attend. Telling Paul to make that happen makes sense to me.

Decision: Paul has discretion, should bring to us anything that seems exceptional.

Agreed.

### "Covid safety at all-hands" leadership-council#147

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/147
- **Labels:** P-urgent, I-council-nominated

TC: Mara asks:

> We should decide on covid safety at the All-Hands. We'll make self-tests available and get CO2 meters in the rooms, etc., but should we make a negative self-test mandatory?

Mara: 3 people have explicitly asked about this. Ventilation in the venue is hopefully pretty good. We'll have CO2 meters too.

Mara: Self-tests will be available. Not expecting "proof", but asking at the door seems like enough to help. Should we make it mandatory?

Oli: Do we have enough tests? -- then seems reasonable.

TC: +1 -- seems reasonable to re-test often.

James: +1 for testing; providing masks would also be good.

Eric Holk: Personally not enthusiastic, but generally OK with this. Rust Week is about getting the whole project together, so we need to help people feel safe. Want to make sure we try to land in an intersection between more cautious people and less cautious people. Maybe consider HEPA filters?

Oli: At minimum, mask with any symptoms seems entirely reasonable.

Mara: Re "Is this enough?" -- a few of those people have explicitly asked about these measures. Indicated that these will be enough.

TC: While addressing the concerns of people in our community who have them is important, in protecting the health and safety of our community by taking reasonable measures, we're also directly protecting the health and effectiveness of the project overall.

Mara: Masks will be provided (but currently expected to be optional).

Mara: Logistically not possible to have tests for the conference beforehand; this decision is about the all-hands only.

Consensus: Happy with a strong policy, including mandatory testing.

### "Should we join GSoC 2025?" leadership-council#146

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/146
- **Labels:** question, I-council-nominated

Kobzol asks:

> Google Summer of Code (GSoC) 2025 was just [announced](https://opensource.googleblog.com/2025/01/google-summer-of-code-2025-is-here.html). I think that our involvement in GSoC 2024 was a [success](https://blog.rust-lang.org/2024/11/07/gsoc-2024-results.html), and I think that it would be great if we joined it again this year.
>
> We have a bunch of project ideas [ready](https://github.com/rust-lang/google-summer-of-code), and several project members have told me that they would be willing to mentors projects again. I myself would be willing to act as an organization mentor again.
>
> Is everyone fine with us doing GSoC again? :)

TC: This seems like an easy call.

Eric Huss: We should create a team or for "all the summers of code-like events". And make it clear they can just do this every year.

James: Where do we put it? Launching pad to start maybe...? But no objections.

TC: It'd go in launching pad for now, yes.

Decision: Agreed on a team + going ahead this year.

### "Chartering the Project Goals Team" leadership-council#150

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/150
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: I ask:

> Building on the completion of the 2024H2 project goals work, we're now looking forward to planning project goals for 2025H1, and in that light, we're proposing to charter the Project Goals Team:
>
> * [Propose project-goals team team#1641](https://github.com/rust-lang/team/pull/1641)
>
> The PR to the `team` repo includes the initial team charter. The team will live under launching-pad for the moment. Let's nominate to discuss and confirm our sign-off.

James: +1 reasonable. Would be nice to see some rotation in leadership.

TC: Niko is the right person for now, but yes, makes sense eventually.

Decision: Agreed. (As below, we decided to do this via FCP.)

### "Chartering the Edition Team" leadership-council#149

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/149
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: I ask:

> With Rust 2024 successfully heading out the door, it's now time to think about what comes next for the edition team and for the next edition.
>
> We, on the edition team, have done a lot to develop good processes and practices for edition management, and we've done a lot to educate the teams and contributors on those processes and how to help us with them to make an edition a collaborative success.
>
> We want to keep that ball rolling.
>
> For that to happen, we want two things from the council:
>
> * We want to make the edition team officially a team (rather than a "project group").  It'll go under launching-pad for now, just as we're doing with the project-goals team.
> * We want the council to delegate to this team all details of edition handling, including in particular the timing of editions, according to the following charter for the team.
>
> This is somewhat time sensitive, as we're already starting to block work on finalizing these matters.
>
> The initial team charter:
>
> > The Rust Edition Team coordinates the editions of Rust.
> > Editions allow us to deliver on our promise of stability without stagnation.  By allowing users to opt-in to certain changes, we're able to evolve the language and its tooling in ways we otherwise could not, allowing us to better serve the changing needs and expectations of our community.
> > The Edition Team is responsible for:
> >
> > * The planning, program management, and release of each edition.
> > * Making each edition a success without requiring heroic sacrifices from our project members.
> > * Developing and continually improving the processes for edition management.
> > * Educating teams, edition item owners, and other key stakeholders about edition process, and helping those stakeholders work together to make each edition a success.
> > * Working with teams to plan and develop edition items.
> > * Helping teams identify owners for edition items.
> > * Working to ensure that edition item owners receive the support they need from across the project.
> > * Setting and enforcing the minimum standards of quality, completeness, and timeliness for each edition item needed to make the edition a success overall.
> > * Tracking the progress toward each item being complete and ready for the edition, identifying gaps that must be addressed, and communicating those to the item owner and the relevant teams.
> > * Accepting items into the edition, and removing items from the edition.
> > * Setting the name, timing of, and timeline for each edition in a way that maximizes the productive evolution of the language and the effectiveness of our processes while minimizing cost to our ecosystem.
> > * Working to improve the infrastructure that supports edition testing and release.
> > * Organizing pre-release testing of each edition and triaging of issues found.
> > * Communicating publicly about all aspects of the edition and its release.
> > * Coordinating with the Foundation where needed in support of the edition.
> > * Updating this team charter when appropriate.
> > * Maintaining and improving the Edition Guide.
> >
> > The lead of the Edition Team is the owner of the edition overall and takes personal responsibility for the success of each edition.  The lead makes final calls where needed regarding edition matters.
>
> Assuming consensus from the council on this plan, we will make the needed PRs to the `team` repository and take other such follow-up actions as are necessary or as the council deems fit and proper.

TC: I would be the initial lead, along with Eric Huss, and this would be continuing our work from the Rust 2024 edition.

Oli: Team is very autonomous in figuring this out. How does the connection to the other teams work? How does this team do different work compared to the actually implementing teams?

TC: The work of this team is mostly program management and helping teams understand the process.

TC: Lang (or whatever) team would still need to sign off on approving items in their domain. But the edition team is responsible for helping that item materialize, making the edition a success overall, etc.

Mark: How do we deal with setting cadence with regards to other teams being involved in approval?

TC: Edition team is solely responsible (e.g., only team on an FCP), but it would be obviously in coordination/discussion with other teams, and those discussions are already ongoing.

James: Like the charter. Would like to see it a bit more spelled out where the scope for decision vs. needing consensus with other teams vs. council re-approval.

TC: Most of this is there, though some bits you mention are probably indeed implicitly understood, based on our history and normal cultural practices, about how all teams in the project work together. We can of course discuss separately what more you might like to see in an iteration of the charter.

James: Also not a huge fan of same-day approval, but no hard objections at this time.

Oli: Cadence, etc. seems like it should be a FCP'd decision so would provide sufficient avenue for input.

TC: Definitely.

Eric Holk: High order idea sounds good to me. Does this need an RFC? It's not clear to me that this team needs to be a blocker for the work of the next edition.

TC: The decisions that need to start being made do affect things of immediate concern. Aside from the delegation of edition timing, which is called out, nothing in the charter is new.  This is exactly what we did last year for Rust 2024.

Mark: Concrete proposal: We FCP this issue. Edition team people can propose an RFC (currently T-council, but would be T-edition) for cadence, and it would get FCP'd likely in short order after edition team gets formed.

TC: Should we FCP both this and project goals then?

Eric Holk: FCPing both feels reasonable.

TC: Kicking off FCP merges.

### "Allocate budget to Edition/Project Goals teams in support of program management" leadership-council#151

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/151
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: I ask:

> With the anticipated chartering of teams for the edition and for project goals, and with the ongoing successful collaboration between teams in our project and community customers of Rust such as Rust for Linux, the Safety-Critical Initiative, and the C/C++ Interoperability Initiative, our project suddenly has a meaningful amount of program/project/product management work to do (henceforth called program management).
>
> While we have highly-capable volunteer contributors who have proven the value of this work and have developed extensive processes and standards for it, the day to day execution of this work could be usefully delegated.
>
> We have a budget that's been entrusted to the council to invest in support of the Rust Project. We propose that a meaningful part of this budget be allocated to the edition and project goals teams to support that work, and, at the joint discretion of those leads, the hiring of one or more associate program managers to work at their discretion.
>
> We suggest a budget of 200k USD for the remainder of 2025. We would delegate all the details and the responsibility for follow-up action, including coordination with the Foundation, jointly to the leads of T-edition and T-project-goals.
>
> It's hoped and anticipated that the success of this work will lead to further support of this work by the Foundation, either directly or by helping to justify continued support for the project's budget, and interest by financial sponsors of the Foundation in making contributions to support this work.
>
> See also:
>
> * [Chartering the Edition Team #149](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/149)
> * [Chartering the Project Goals Team #150](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/150)

TC: We've developed processes, standards, etc., but having dedicated people supporting this work would significantly help all of these initiatives.

Oli: C++ initiative seems like it already has someone paid there?

Oli: RfL also seems like it has external interest; funding it ourselves feels surprising.

TC: This is for edition work and for project goals, which covers many items.  Interaction with these named and notable projects is not the main part of the ask.

TC: I also expect this to help direct Foundation's investment by better expressing our needs/priorities to the Foundation.

James: Chartering teams and immediately handing them a significant chunk of money feels a bit rapid. A lot to consider.

TC: It's a big ask for sure. Of course, in a way I like that about it. It's important that we do invest this budget in a way that benefits the project, and we're never going to get there with only small things.

Mark: What percentage of our budget is this?

TC: We have $325k/year currently, and we're carrying over funds from 2024.

Mark: Would be interested in asking the Foundation to help fund this out of other pools too.

TC: There's a need for cross-cutting project-directed program management even if particular verticals (e.g., security, C++, etc.) were to have individual program management. And the hope and anticipation is to prove this a success so as to attract more funding both from and to the Foundation.

Oli: Do we have enough budget for at least 2 years here? The people we hire might be interested in continuity.

TC/Oli: It would be fair to at least guarantee that if we have budget in +1 year, we'll renew the allocation.

Oli: Would like to see an internal hire if possible/feasible and state to the teams being given money that that internal folk should be prioritized.

TC: Regardless, certainly we'd prefer if we could find internal people, as they are already acquainted with our processes and norms.

Eric Huss: There is ~$360k currently unreserved.

Mara: Let's make sure we get input from the people we represent before making a decision.

TC: We'll leave this nominated and discuss in the next meeting.

(meeting ended here)

### "[launching-pad] Find a home for the Security Response WG" leadership-council#141

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/141
- **Labels:** A-teams, I-council-nominated

### "Inconsistent handling of potentially build failing changes between different rust teams" leadership-council#145

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/145
- **Labels:** A-policy, I-council-nominated

### "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" leadership-council#41

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41
- **Labels:** S-active, A-foundation, P-high, I-council-nominated

### "Establish team charters" leadership-council#44

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure, I-council-nominated

## P-high issues

### "Review and organize overall project team structure" leadership-council#33

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33
- **Labels:** S-active, P-high, A-project-structure

## Issues that need a council decision

### "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" leadership-council#24

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-legal

## Active issues

### "Document the council's internal decision making process" leadership-council#31

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31
- **Labels:** S-active

### "Find homes for launching pad teams" leadership-council#118

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118
- **Labels:** S-active, A-teams, A-project-structure

## Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo

### "Allow messages from observers during meetings" leadership-council#110

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

TC: Hearing none, there are no clarifications.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)

## Review of the minutes

TC: We'll review the minutes and check off that we're OK with them being posted next week, after giving a few days for each of us to clarify our remarks in the document.
