# Council meeting 2025-12-05

## Attendance

- Council members: TC, Mara Bos, Jakub Beranek, James Munns, Eric Huss, Josh Stone, Oli
- Project directors: Jack Huey, Niko
- Project staff: Tomas Sedovic
- Foundation staff: Lori Lorusso
- Observers: Tshepang Mbambo

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Tomas

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: The agenda, as proposed, is to do the normal program management update; at the end of that, I'll discuss what to expect in terms of a budget proposal for 2026. After that, we have a nominated item about compiler-ops; we similarly need to decide about a budget proposal there. Then there's the item on the Rust Foundation Maintainer Fund (RFMF) committee; we have a concern to resolve on the FCP. Next are the items about the RFMF more broadly and about funding maintainers from the Project Priorities budgets. One of those last two items is as far as I'd expect us to get.

TC: If that sounds right, please give it a thumbs up. If you have other suggestions for how to approach this, please raise a hand.

TC: Seeing thumbs up and no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

## Nominated issues

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated, A-program-management

Tomas: Most of my non-meeting time was spent on the Project Goals. I've reached out to all the contacts for each active goal to get their status and whether they expect to close the goal during this period or continue in 2026.

Tomas: Out of the 41 goals total, 12 are expected to wrap up and 20 to continue in the next period (2026). 2 are put on pause due to lack of resources and I'm waiting for the status of the remaining 7.

Tomas: Dealt with a sick kid and being sick myself, had less time to work these last couple weeks.

TC: Tomas has been putting out summaries of the Council meeting. We've had feedback in the past, on the council side, that people don't know what the Council is doing, so this is helpful in that respect. Also, as always, have a look at the monthly updates.

TC: With respect to funding the project management program in 2026, Niko and Tomas have been talking about needing more capacity for the goals program. Similarly, as we turn attention back toward editions, we'll need more capacity for that.

More importantly, however, the program is in an unsustainably small state. It took a lot of energy, from busy Project members, to bootstrap this -- to plan the hire, to recruit and screen, and to onboard Tomas in a way that integrated him deeply into the Project. It was a lot of work. We did this, in part, to prove out a model that's now proven. Tomas has been great. I think everyone has seen the value.

The challenge is that if something were to happen to Tomas, bootstrapping this again from zero, without Tomas's help, would be tough. I'm not sure we could do it, at least not quickly.

Even aside from that, we have to let Tomas take a vacation now and then. When he does that, though, the Project goes from the level of support it has become accustomed to back down to zero.

So, for those reasons, I'd estimate that we want to staff this further.

I need to run some numbers, then I expect to propose that we allocate a budget sufficient to 1) hire a second program manager and 2) leave room for Tomas to continue billing at the 18-20 days a month rate that he has been.

I'll put that proposal up as an issue, sometime later, and propose FCP merge. Of course, it'll be subject to feedback at that stage.

Are there any thoughts, questions, etc. that people have now?

Jakub: I like and appreciate what Tomas is doing and I agree having more bandwidth would help. But even with two people the bus factor would still just increase it to two. We should document what Tomas is doing; this would be helpful with onboarding another person too.

TC: Absolutely agree.

James: You mentioned 1 isn't going to be enough. Is 2 the target or do we have a sense we'll want more?

TC: I'm a Rust maximalist. I'd like to see our Project grow and continue to see greater and greater success. As it does, I'm sure our need for program management will continue to grow. Going from one to two is the next step. We'll take that as far as possible. When we hit the bandwidth limitations there, we'll reassess.

I'm hopeful in hiring someone now (6-7 months after the first hire) that maybe we'll be able to successfully reapproach some of the applicants we liked from the first round.

James: It might be good to discuss compared when is the second person, third PM come in. For next year's budget conversations, having the priority on the ratio.

TC: Absolutely. Given where we are (a project with a lot of volunteers) there's a lot of premium on good coordination. We can take what we have and make it much more effective by coordinating it better. That's where Tomas has been particularly effective.

### "Renew the compiler-ops program for 2026" leadership-council#244

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/244
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated, A-budget

TC: We've been renewing the compiler-ops position six months at a time. The current contract and allocated funding runs through 2025.

TC: This is for apiraino, he works 20 hours a week supporting the compiler team.

TC: Earlier, we didn't renew this into 2026 because we didn't have clarity around budget. Now we do. This runs us around 30k USD per six month period. In the last round, we allocated 25k USD as we had some funds carry over from the first allocation.

We're paying in Euros, so this is subject to currency fluctuation. My expectation is we'd be allocating something around $60k USD to fund this through 2026.

Jakub: Apiraino contacted me and said this is too much money. There is an upper limit on the time he can spend on this and that works out to around 40,000 annual.

TC: Was that in EUR or USD?

Jakub: EURs, maybe.

TC: Previously we've allocated around 30k USD and we've spent 25k USD. It would be good to see how much we expect to be spent through the rest of the year to get a good read for what we need in 2026.

TC: Let's talk with David and Wesley about this, get back some numbers from Joel or Lori, put up a concrete proposal on this, and FCP it up on the issue.

TC: Fortunately, people on the council are good about checking boxes on proposed FCPs between meetings. I appreciate that, and it'll help with moving these proposals along.

TC: Separately, we'll need to put up a proposal for allocating funds for travel grants.

### "Add Rust Foundation Maintainer Fund Design committee" leadership-council#248

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/248
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, proposed-final-comment-period, disposition-merge, I-council-nominated

TC: I think everyone saw this proposal. For context, Oli and I had a conversation, made some final adjustments to the committee charter, and then I proposed FCP merge. We included committee everyone who had been nominated in the committee.

We all then checked boxes. After that Tyler Mandry, who is on the committee, raised concern about how we're exceeding the affiliation limit. He felt this may already be causing problems on that committee. This was new information to me and seems worth listening to closely.

TC: I filed a concern to leave room for us to discuss how we want to handle that. Niko previously had been nominated but had declined, and has now volunteered to join to help.

oli: What was the actual concern that was new? What were the problems this was causing?

TC: He felt the discussions were coming from a very particular point of view: there were a lot of analogies being made at how Huwawei worked and he was the only one pushing against that coming from a different place.

oli: Fair, but I don't think lcnr or Jakub were affected by that much, but I could see the others feeling that way

Jack: If Niko joins, I'll probably drop, that satisfies my main reason for joining was to have a PD on.

oli: That won't solve the concern of reducing the number of Huawei people. It will increase the problem further, right?

TC: Jack is paid by Huawei/Futurewei, as I understand.

TC: I know Kobzol offered to drop off but I don't think that's the best idea, given the amount of work he's been doing here.

Jack: I want to point out, it doesn't need to be limited to two here. It's not like this committee has FCP power. I don't necessarily think we need to aim for that.

Niko: +1 I don't think the limit of 2 is necessary.

James: +1.

TC: I proposed FCP merge; I want to get it going also. But I'm sensitive to Tyler's concern. As they don't have FCP power, I'd expected this would be OK. But if someone on the committee comes up and says it's not, then that's a problem. The easiest thing to do would be to say that we'll follow our normal affiliation limit.

Mara: I would be happy with just Niko replacing Jack.

Niko: Tyler felt much better with just having another person on. I think it's important to have a diverse view. People working in the same place can have a similar view. But I don't think counting is a good idea. I'm in favor of moving forward.

James: +1.

TC: OK. I'm happy with that. With that change to the document to add Niko to replace Jack, I'll resolve my concern.

### "Discuss Rust Foundation Maintainers Fund" leadership-council#242

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/242
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

Oli: Do have any concrete topics to talk about? The main thing is discussing constrained and unconstrained funds but I don't think that's worth the sync council time. We can discuss that later.

TC: Anything those on the committee want to raise to the council right now? Jakub, perhaps?

Jakub: Right now we're mainly stuck creating the subcommittee. We've got the document ready. I've shared it with the proposed subcommittee and they are okay with it. So we can move forward once they're set.

Jakub: How are we going to approached the unconstrained funds? The Foundation saidn they won't consider things like employment. Is that set? Do we want to go back to the Foundation on that?

Lori: There's work happening behind the scene in parallel. A lot of people are talking to people and gathering data. This unrestricted/restricted funds I feel is a distraction. If we can just say the money will go to the Project and it's our job to decide what to do with them. This is supposed to be just extra money going to the Project to decide how the Project wants to spend it. If the Project says we're sorely underfunded in an area and the Foundation can look at that specific thing. But right now we're getting the funds, but we need to hear what the Project's goals and priorities are. And the Project needs to know where to put the money once it's ready. We should have a list of things we (the Project) need and how to move forward. Right now it's been a bit too one-sided. I thought the purpose of this exercise was to figure out what the Project wants and needs.

Oli: If we figure out how unrestricted funds are distributed, once we have that set up, adding restricted funds we can put into things we decide to put that we were funding with unrestricted funds. So that shouldn't block the funding plan. And once we have that, we can talk about figuring out the other cases with restrictions. Let's figure out what to do with the money we know we'll get.

Niko: I feel we should discuss this as a committee. Especially since Tyler's been active there, he's on the committee and he's not here.

Lori: I think we do. I think Jakub who's been so great in getting getting this all written down. I've tried to get it to shift to focus on the Project and it keeps coming back to "and what about the restricted funds". They'll still going to come to us to tell us what they want with Rust. But this is our time to say what we want.

Niko: I feel there's a lot of misunderstanding around what's being discussed. When I read the thread, it seemed Jakub and Tyler made some progress in realizing that there's a lot of ground between "do we let people approach with exactly what they want" vs. prioritization. Feels we're talking past each other a lot in this topic. That's why I want to have this discussion in a smaller group.

Niko: I'm happy to explore, I think we should explore the unrestricted area. But I think there's a lot of room to do a lot more with some small changes in terms of how much money we could make. E.g. on my side we may be able to get more money than what Jakub's saying, but I need to know more.

TC: Lori, I want to be sure we heard you. What I heard you say is that you want to identify areas to which the Project feels the money could be applied, e.g. who or at least what we might choose to fund. In contrast, I think we've been working on the understanding that the committee will work out a process for deciding how the money would be distributed without saying where the money would be going themselves. Is that accurate, and does the Foundation need something from this committee other than what we've had in mind?

Lori: I don't think the subcommittee is going to say where the money should be spent. But we need to determine where the priorities stand. Figuring out how many maintainers, figuring out all the qualitative and quantitative stuff. And then I'd expect the Project to "from what we see, here's where we could put the money". It works in synergy and I don't see that as a bad thing. I see that as a big goal to achieve. To my mind the discussion has been weighted on the other side.

TC: I understand. Thank you for clarifying.

Oli: If we figure out how money should be priorities and in what areas (e.g. how do we determine which areas in the compiler should the money go to) and once we have that process we could figure out the areas themselves. We've been asked in figuring out "if there's money there, how to distribute it to the community to make sure the maintenance is going". We should honor that. I don't want the committee to not talk in circles. That's why the RFC says to *not* talk about the restricted funds. We want one specific thing answered.

Jakub: I agree with Oli, having this constraint that we only deal with unrestricted makes it easier. But I want to explain to Lori why we keep talking about restricted. I don't really care about the needs of Amazon. The only reason I'm talking about this in the first place is to get as much money as possible. I trust the Project knows how to spend the money. If a company is going to give us e.g. $500k for a specific thing, I want us to take that money.

Lori: I get it. E.g. Amazon has async. To get there we need XYZ needs to happen. If Amazon gives us money for async, we can say 'okay but if you give us money on these things, we can get async happen faster'. If there are all these things underlying why we can't move it forward, we need to highlight those to get more money from the sponsors. The users don't understand that XYZ is underneath what they want done. I think it helps close the gap in communication and how the Project works if the Project has a voice and can explain what to get to get there quickly.

Lori: I want to mention, Jakub, I appreciate all the work that you've done.

Niko: I also don't think that's how it should work. I think this fund should only do multiplier activities. That's what I meant with maintenance. Reviews, refactoring etc. That all makes sense to me. I don't think anyone's arguing against that.

Niko: When TC asked you Lori, maybe I didn't understand this. Lori are you saying the right thing for this committee is to produce a snapshot of "at this point, this is what we need" or is it the process for how the snapshot gets created?

Lori: It's a combination. First we need the former to see where we are now. But then we'll need to repeated later. So yes, snapshot right now. And then have a way to reproduce this again.

Niko: That's distinct from what Oli said. I think it makes sense not to overgeneralize.

TC: Similar to what Niko said. There's a spectrum between, on the one hand, asking people to give us money to spend and trusting us entirely to spend it in productive ways, and on the other, giving us money directed toward feature work. There are many shades in between. I feel a part of the role of this committee is to talk with the Project, the Foundation, teams, leads, maintainers, and sponsors to get the data, color, and texture to understand everyone's needs. What does the landscape look like? I'd prefer we not pre-decide this too much. I respect where the Foundation is coming from, in terms of a starting position, but I think it's the role of the committee to try to collect this data and to bring it back to the council.

TC: From looking at the charter, I don't see the restriction Oli mentioned, and I would not want that restriction in it.

Oli: Works for me to first produce a list and using lessons learned to find a generalization.

## Topics we didn't get to

* "Discuss how to spend funds for supporting maintainers" [leadership-council#245](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/245)
* "Discussion: Updating and Formalizing Council Expectations for Project Director Communication" [leadership-council#230](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/230)

P-high issues:

* "Review and organize overall project team structure" [leadership-council#33](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33)
* "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" [leadership-council#41](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41)

Issues that need a council decision:

* "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" [leadership-council#24](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24)

Active issues:

* "Document the council's internal decision making process" [leadership-council#31](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31)
* "Establish team charters" [leadership-council#44](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44)
* "Find homes for launching pad teams" [leadership-council#118](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118)

Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo:

* "Allow messages from observers during meetings" [leadership-council#110](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110)
* "rust-foundation-project-director.md: use more clear language" [leadership-council#215](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/215)
* "Add alumni policy" [leadership-council#218](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/218)
* "Add Rust Foundation Maintainer Fund Design committee" [leadership-council#248](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/248)
* "project directors: responsibilities" [leadership-council#250](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/250)

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

(no one raised anything)

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
