# Council meeting 2025-10-24

## Attendance

- Council members: TC, James Munns, Eric Huss, Mara Bos, Josh Stone, Kobzol, Oli
- Observers: David Wood, Jack, Niko

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: James Munns

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: Seeing thumbs up, agenda is consented

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

### Asking David about the Foundation all-hands

* David: Mostly social, nothing to report

## Nominated issues

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated, A-program-management

Tomas (not present):

* I've sent a [short summary](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/392734-council/topic/Meeting.20minutes.20.26.20summaries/with/545656887) of what was discussed at the Council meeting. People appreciated it, I'll keep doing these.
* I've set up the PD election retrospective ([hackmd](https://hackmd.io/4SgDbeQ9Sd2KlknfT85X0Q), [thread](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/392734-council/topic/pd.20retrospective/with/546308172)). Comments slowed down, I'd like to summarise it and start opening PRs in the next week or so. If you haven't responded yet, please do!
* I've shared feedback with the PD candidates who weren't selected.
* Made more progress on writing the RustConf C++ summary blog post, but it's slow going.
* Synced with Niko on Project Goals. I've updated [the announcement PR](https://github.com/rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org/pull/1700) and we're aligned on the next steps: publish the September and October updates, set up a "goals retrospective" and start getting ready for the next year's cycle (and roughly how we want that to go -- we'll write up an announcement & RFC).

TC: Have a look at the monthly program management updates as well.  There's a lot of good information in those, and it's exciting to be able to share these updates with our community on a regular basis.

### "Discuss Rust Society proposal" leadership-council#159

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/159
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

James: No progress since EuroRust.  I'll resume pinging people shortly, and then I'll have a more up-to-date list.

### "Contributor Survey" leadership-council#222

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/222
- **Labels:** question, S-triage, I-council-nominated

TC: Anything needed from the Council for this?

Jakub: Questions provided for contributors, link: https://github.com/rust-lang/surveys/pull/350, has been stable for a couple weeks, might be ready for Council to review. If no comments, we can start it. One potential blocker: we don't have a good channel for pinging all project members. Blog/Zulip not a good match; too public. Other ideas: a new zulip private channel for private members (this is another nominated item).

Mara: We have private channels for most teams at the moment, we could send it there?

Jakub: That won't cover ALL folks. Posting to all might be best choice for now. Lets wait a few more days; if no more feedback, we can go ahead and send if Council is okay with that.

Room: (Lots of thumbs ups emojis.)

TC: Not that it needs to happen here, but at some point, it might be useful to have a listing of who is employed or who wants to be employed by the Project.

Jakub: This is asked, with an optional field for people to put their GH handle. Affiliation isn't (publicly) tracked currently.

Eric: What is going to happen with answers to the survey? Assume there will be summaries posted, but who has access to private data?

Jakub: Rust Foundation staff has access, we plan to share data with the Council, PII will not be shared publicly. This survey is for internal usage, could be useful regarding the maintainers fund and similar. We may not actually post summaries of this publicly. Information will get out of date if we add it to teams. This is more of a snapshot, we may want to observe the trends over time.

### "Invite Rust for Linux to All Hands 2026" leadership-council#236

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/236
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC: Lang and others meet with the Linux team every two weeks; this came out of that, and is asking to put the official invite out to invite them as was done last year.

Mara: Already done 4 weeks ago. Post from Tyler talks about RfL and Linux technical leadership, invite has been forwarded to RfL. For Linux leadership, Greg from the Linux project is coming to the all-hands, and is giving a keynote at RustWeek. Didn't hear about other Linux leadership being interested. Mara will check with Miguel to see if something was missed.

TC: As last year, if it's without objection, we can then say on this issue that "the Project" is officially inviting the Linux folks.

Eric: Are we also extending an invite for travel grants?

Mara: It depends on how much money we have to spend on this. Last year there was a specific sponsor for RfL support, not confirmed this year yet, could be a source for that.

Eric: If that sponsorship is not possible, could you please bring it up again?

Mara: Not sure how "far" the invite has been spread outside of the RfL folks, e.g. Linus, not clear who else we should invite.

TC: There was a list of 4-5 top subsystem maintainers they were interested to invite.

Mara: That sounds like a reasonable number; we don't want it to go too large, Mara will check with Miguel.

TC: Any other questions?  Hearing none.

### "Proposal: Require all project team members to have Zulip IDs" leadership-council#228

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/228
- **Labels:** A-teams, I-council-nominated

Jakub: We currently require members have a GH account, this issue asks if we also require this for Zulip accounts as well. This would make it non-optional in the Team database, and would make it possible for private channels, etc. Most people have accounts.

James: Timeline for this? WGs not always as active on Zulip. Wait until after Rust Society working is done?

Jakub: We could have a "fake" account to use for placeholders.

TC: Zulip is our main "corporate" communication channel, but it's not yet been recogized as "official". Making it official could help, e.g., in communicating with the Foundation.

Josh: Can we "grandfather" this in, prevent new additions w/o Zulip account, but allow existing missing data points?

Mara: Data point: Mara ran into only 2 people who didn't have a Zulip account for the all-hands 2025. Next time it would be very useful to have a way to map github->zulip without manual work.

Eric: For the missing list of 23 people, I'm aware of some that do have accounts, so there might even be less than that. For people we can't find, we may want to use this to remove folks who are no longer active.

Jakub: Okay to do an FCP to require this?

TC: Yes, and it'd probably be good to talk about the transition plan in that proposal.

Josh: There is still a discord ID in the teams database, should we remove this as Discord is now officially unofficial?

Oli: Good to remove as the Discord is shut down.

TC: Let's pull up the item on linking to the community discord and talk about that next.

### "Consider linking to the community discord from rust-lang.org" leadership-council#219

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/219
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: What do we think?

Oli: This was discussed when we shut down the main discord, also relevant for things like the subreddit.

James: At least in the embedded working group, there's interest in having things that are semi-curated but unofficial spaces. It's something we find value in. E.g.:

https://github.com/rust-embedded/awesome-embedded-rust

TC: Could we wrap this up with other such spaces and list unofficial but well moderated spaces?

Room: (Many thumbs up.)

Eric: Website maintainers are the main people responsible here.

James: Reminds me on T-Society-Admins, enforcing "at least Rust CoC".

Niko: Might be better to require it, but enforce it retrospectively rather than proactive gatekeeping, but be responsive.

TC: Just to check the other side, may it's worth asking, "do we need to do this?" Is it maybe OK if we just link to the official spaces and leave the discovery of other spaces to others?  Do we get enough value from doing this ourselves that it's worth the cost of maintaining it?

Niko: Yes, we get a lot of value out of being inclusive. There's more worry about this than negative impacts we've seen.

James: People like organizing in smaller or more local communities, so I'm pretty in favor of it as well.  In the future, it may be that we bundled this in with the Rust Society.

TC: I was going to ask to what degree you thought the Rust Society might encompass this.

James: It could.  I could see this being something we list there.

Eric: Along those lines, we already link to local community meetups; none of those are managed by us.

TC: Regarding the website folks, what are the next steps there; delegate? Reach out? Maybe we FCP that we're broadly OK with it and are leaving it in the hands of the website group.

Eric: I'll write it up.

James: I'll leave a note to maybe link this back to the Society effort.

### "Discussion: Updating and Formalizing Council Expections for Project Director Communication" leadership-council#230

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/230
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

James: For quite awhile, we've talked about better working out the relationship.  We've even talked about whether we need a separate group of Project Directors.  If we're unhappy with anything here, it'd be good to itemize our unhappiness and work through those.  We should ask whether we want to ensure a PD representative is always in these calls.  We should formalize our expectations around updates before and after board calls.

David Wood: Completely in favor of making this clearer for everyone involved, so PDs/Council/Foundation know what to expect from each role.

Niko: We discussed this as a group in the first PD sync on the PD's perspective, there were some HackMD notes. Great thing to talk about, particularly with pre/post-board sync. Re separate group: I see it as a team with delegated authority to take care of this link; would otherwise be a lot to ask of the Council to do both. PDs could export this into a doc for future reading. I'd be interested in feedback from the Council on what we want.

TC: Agree it makes sense to be an autonomous team.  Where I see there as being a dependence is that the council has not (in my view) delegated to the PDs a separate autonomous authority to decide what the priorities and interests of the Project are, and I don't think that such a delegation makes sense.  That is, I don't think there should be two separate and independent authorities who can make conflicting decisions about the interests and priorities of the Project.

Given our structure, the council has a unique kind of legitimacy when speaking in the Project voice due to being composed of representatives from each team and being directly accountable to those teams.

In this model, the PDs are our envoys -- diplomats, ambassadors, etc. -- to the Foundation.  The council decides what the Project wants and the parameters of what it will accept, and the PDs then work to make as much of that a reality as possible.

This is why there should be a lot of communication and a tight feedback loop between the council and the PDs, and why we should all share a lot of information and context.

I'm interested to hear, of course, in whether this model resonates with others.

Niko: I think that makes sense largely, it might be a little more complicated than it sounds; PDs also have a separate fiduciary duty to the Foundation; PDs have to balance those two; there is legal text for how corporate sponsors are required to act. For PDs, it's probably largely theoretical.

Separately, things will of course come up in meetigs and PDs may have to make decisions quickly.  As companies would get consensus before the meeting, PDs will likely need to do the same.

TC: To the latter point, yes, I think this is coherent with the description of PDs as diplomats.  Ambassadors are, of course, "extraordinary and plenipotentiary".  That is, they're "all powerful", in theory.  Yet, of course, they are responsible for working closely with their sponsors so as to achieve the desired ends of those sponsors and to not exceed their own mandate.

With respect to fiduciary duty, this comes up all the time on corporate boards, particularly for startups.  Think about the relationship, e.g., when a VC firm puts a partner on a startup board.  While the board member must act in the interest of the startup, the member is free (and expected) to do that in a way that aligns with the interests of the sponsor that put the person on the board.  The person of course talks with the others in the VC firm about what that is exactly.  It's similar here.

James: Remembering more of the context here, some of the things we've discussed were in the context of some council members serving, on a permanent or interim basis, on the board.  We benefited greatly, I think, from the work you were doing, TC, in particular, to bring the work of the council and the work of the PDs closer together.  What we wanted to do here was to try to formalize that so that it keeps on going and doesn't stop.

Niko: Good idea to formalize attendence to council meetings; maybe not every person every time, but some representation.

David: Feedback from the Foundation is that they would like this to be clarified as well. Directors are Bec's boss, so the PDs share this role. As a next course of action: PDs could come back with a proposal how they'd like to see that happen, then come back and get Council feedback.

TC: Something I noticed when serving on the board in an interim basis is that there was a lot of "siloing" of information.  When I saw this, I encouraged these things to be shared more widely, e.g. in `#foundation-council-private`.

(As one move in this direction, unless there are objections, I'll be sharing our council meeting threads there going forward, as I did this week.)

While this might not be appropriate for everything, for most everything that I saw, there was value in sharing it more widely.  It'd good to avoid the "game of telephone", and we end up doing that when we silo things.

David: Agree wrt silos, important for everyone to "see" what is going on, but also know who is "responsible" for this.

TC: The current discussion about the 2026 Project Priorities budget might be the kind of example that would be clarifying for us to think about.  Obviously, the council was charged with the investment of this budget in 2024 and 2025.  It's an interest of the Project for this budget to continue, and setting out how we might allocate that budget therefore is a council matter.

When the Foundation asks for guidance on this budgeting matter, therefore, it seems likely that the council has a detailed role to play.

The way I see it, the council sets out what it wants here, and how it sees the priorities of the Project, as we did in the recent report, and then the PDs go and try try to bring as much of that into reality as possible in the manner of diplomats, advocates, etc.  We should all keep talking.

Niko: We can always attempt to strike the best deal we can, but if it goes beyond what we can, then we can bring that back to the Council. Want to make sure we're aligned on goals.

James: Finding the things as we go that are challenging for the council to just do -- formalizing things like that, would be a very positive thing.  We managed to get that sorted out by people jumping on that this year.  Getting it sorted so it becomes more of a regular thing would be great.

Jack: The maintainer's fund is an interesting example that is not decided, but is going to be a lot of back and forth between the Foundation and Project. Is there something we can do here to set expectations/metrics of how we experiment if things can work. Currently there are a lot of voices, maybe we can reduce this to get more done.

TC: I would like to see us all continuing to keep talking about it, and find something that is going to work.

James: Time check.

Jack: What TC said is counter to what was said before, which was "Council asks the PDs to go make something happen", but having the entire council giving feedback may not match what we just said.

TC: Disagree that's what we had leaned toward, as applied here. On this specific topic, there are a lot of important details, in terms of how this program is structured. Those details will have a lot of effect on the Project. It's not enough for us to say, "please go fund maintainers" and leave it at that. As council members, we have a responsibility to the teams we represent. These details are going to affect those teams, and we need to be talking with our teams about this. We can't fulfill our own responsibilities without being informed on and setting some parameters for these details (as a sponsor of some ambassador sets parameters for the details of what makes an acceptable treaty). So, in my view, we all need to keep sharing information and talking about this one.

Niko: Is "this issue is so big we can't effectively delegate it, or at least not yet" a good summary?

TC: I don't know. Let's you and I talk about it later.

Eric: Can we make some specific policy change proposals, e.g. on meeting attendance, board meeting attendance.

TC: That makes sense.

Eric: Eric, James, and David to work on that.

(The meeting ended here.)


## Topics we didn't get to

Nominated:

* "Discuss Resident Project Maintainer idea" [leadership-council#233](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/233)
* "Discussing 'Project Representative' needs" [leadership-council#226](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/226)
* "Add Graydon Hoare to the Rust website" [leadership-council#231](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/231)
* "Explicit team membership term durations" [leadership-council#175](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/175)
* "Discuss Project inputs to Foundation three year strategy" [leadership-council#197](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/197)
* "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" [leadership-council#41](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41)
* "Establish team charters" [leadership-council#44](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44)
* "Minor Editorial Proposal for Upcoming Release Notes" [leadership-council#203](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/203)

P-high issues:

* "Review and organize overall project team structure" [leadership-council#33](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33)

Issues that need a council decision:

* "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" [leadership-council#24](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24)

Active issues:

* "Document the council's internal decision making process" [leadership-council#31](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31)
* "Find homes for launching pad teams" [leadership-council#118](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118)

Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo:

* "Allow messages from observers during meetings" [leadership-council#110](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110)
* "rust-foundation-project-director.md: use more clear language" [leadership-council#215](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/215)
* "Add alumni policy" [leadership-council#218](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/218)

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

TC: Hearing none, there are no clarifications.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
