# Council meeting 2025-12-19

## Attendance

- Council members: Eric Huss, Jakub Ber√°nek, James Munns, Mara, oli, TC, Josh Stone
- Observers: David Wood, Niko Matsakis, Tomas Sedovic, Lori Lorusso

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Tomas Sedovic

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: Hearing thumbs-up and no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

## Nominated issues

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated, A-program-management

Tomas: Posted the November project goals update blog post. Did a few fixes to how the page is generated, more to come.

We've updated the Project goals tooling to support the 2026 annual goals, fixed a few things in the blog/report pages. Started the support+planning phase: reaching out to folks.

I've opened DMs for the team and subteam leads, asking for their thoughts on flagship candidates and any feedback. Brought up goals to the meetings I've joined. We're accepting nominations until the end of January 2026, then we'll start drafting the RFC and plan for the program to start in April.

Python: we had two meeting with the CPython folks. The first one was introductory and focused on answering questions they had, figuring out what gaps existed. A lot of their needs are very similar to Rust for Linux: build-std, sanitizers, support for more platforms.

I couldn't make the meeting yesterday, they drilled further into Python's "Tier 4" targets (not supported but being used), build system, FFI, stable Rust ABI and Python LTS. We expect to meet roughly once a month.

I've also written my last PM update blog post, it's up for review now, Eric had some good suggestions.

Reminder: I'll be out for the next two weeks, back on Monday 2026-01-05. Will anyone here be able to publish the Council notes? If not, I'd like to do it when I'm back.

TC: The Linux project announced that Rust is now successful. It's no longer an experiment, Rust is being used. Huge props to Miguel Ojeda who lead it. It's been a fantastic project.

TC: Robert C. Seacord as the convener of the C committee has been joining us on the Lang calls. Great to have that collaboration starting there.

Niko: As part of project goals looking to build strong relationship to safety critical consortium members to ensure continued success.

### "Raise travel grant limit to $100,000 for 2026" leadership-council#254

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/254
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, proposed-final-comment-period, disposition-merge, I-council-nominated

TC: We previously allocated funds to things like program management etc. where we spent certain amount in 2025, but that didn't reach what we allocated. The Foundation rolled in all the unspent money from our earlier allocations. We're not allocated out of $650k fresh dollars, but from that minus the amount we've already allocated.

Eric: Our initial ask was for $150k, since we had lower budgets, $100k seems reasonable. In addition to the $50k the Foundation is giving to RustConf that should be enough. But we have flexibility to change it over the rest of the year.

TC: Makes sense to me. We're in FCP and have all checkboxes other than James Munns.

James: I can go check that box now.

TC: That would make our travel grant program $100k + the $50k that the Foundation is putting in, outside of our budget, to support travel to RustConf. All together then, we'll be funding significantly more travel than we did in 2025.

Eric: Lori has been working on the travel form. We're also looking at the $1k limit *per person* and after that the Foundation is supposed to ask us to go up to 2k -- maybe we want to change that as well and say $2k is the new limit. I don't think we've ever rejected anything. We can look at how things are going throughout the year and keep track on how much people are spending. We want to track that separately.

Mara: Didn't we already do that, Eric?

Eric: We specifically approved the 2k limit for the All Hands but we didn't do that in general. I think we can now.

Mara: Agreed, ok.

TC: We can consider this in our first meeting in 2026.

### "Figure out guest travel grants for 2026 All-Hands/RustWeek" leadership-council#252

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/252
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated, A-budget

Mara: Last time we talked about how not every person invited to All Hands is a member of the Rust project. GSoC folks, domain experts etc. We agreed that whomever we invite is also allowed to get support from the Travel grants budget. I'd like us to do is to do the same thing we did last time. I'm asking if anyone who's invited can use the travel grant and have the limit to $2k per person be approved too.

TC: If we're inviting people from CPython, I'd expect the Python foundation to cover their travel before it gets to us.

Mara: E.g. for RfL there's another source for funding, I'm expecting the same for Python. Last time the Council delegated this to me. If they have alternate source of funding, I'll ask them.

Eric: Is there a way to estimate how much we're committing here? Especially if RustNL and other orgs can cover it?

Mara: It's basically the same as last time: 100 Project people plus 50 GSoC and other folks. The number of people needing travel suport is also similar to last time.

TC: What were the last time numbers?

Mara: I don't know the numbers of those separately from the team members.

Lori: If you gave me their names, I could figure it out. But our spreadsheet doesn't track that. We can add that next year.

Mara: A roughly 50 non-project/unclear status and maybe a third of those used the travel funds. Maybe $10-20k. It easily fit in the budget last time and we have the same this year.

TC: I propose to write up a specific proposal for the policy on the issue and proposing FCP merge.

Mara: There are two options: either the Council approves each person individually, or we do the same as last time.

Niko: I think Mara said she can't write a detailed policy of who she will or will not invite. But I'm not sure that's what you're asking for TC. Maybe the policy is to let Mara decide.

TC: Whatever the policy is, let's write it up and propose FCP merge. Does someone want to write the proposal?

Mara: Can we make the decision in this meeting?

oli: It worked out well last year, why not repeat it?

Eric: The process for our decisions should be done in a public process via FCPs.

Mara: I want to send the proposal on Monday.

TC: I propose we waive the 10 day period.

Jakub: We can do both: we can all agree, Mara can invite and we do the FCP.

TC: When we're dealing with money I think it's worth doing it via process and doing it through FCP means everyone on the Council agrees.

James: I'm not clear when we're to thumbs up in meeting vs. doing FCP. We should write that out when it's required and when not. I can open an issue for that.

edit: James opened https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/256

TC: Is anyone volunteering to write the proposal?

Jakub: I opened an issue, I'm writing it down now.

Mara: Thank you.

Lori: Can I get clarification on the max per person? Is it $2k per person per year? Are you setting the limit for All Hands? It's important so I can go back to you.

oli: We didn't have that many hits over $2k  last year and we delegated it to Paul to make the judgement call. We can repeat it again: $2k is standard budget, they can go over if it's reasonable. And if it looks unreasonable, you can get back to us.

Eric: I've proposed raising the automatic approval for $2k.

Lori: There were 17 people that went over $2k, some of them by a lot.

Mara: I'm pretty sure we didn't get 17 things to the Council to be approved individually.

Eric: That seems surprising to me, we were supposed to be notified on those.

TC: Lori, can you send us the numbers so we can come up with the policy for this?

Lori: ok.

Jakub: let's get to this once you fire up the RFC bot.

### "Renew the compiler-ops program for 2026" leadership-council#244

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/244
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, proposed-final-comment-period, disposition-merge, I-council-nominated, A-budget

TC: We'd originally allocated $30k USD, we've spent $25k on the first allocation. We've allocated another $20k. We're renewing compiler-ops for 2026. It's currently apiraino working half time (that's how he wants it to work). He's charging us in Euros. I estimate we'll be spending some around $25k USD, maybe a bit more. I think the right allocation is $60k total. Given what we've allocated, we'd be allocating $55k in new USD in light of the $5k or so that we've got out of the current allocation, but it's $60k from the $650k that we've got disposable.

Josh: I think this is clearly something compiler wants. If the abstainers have a reason, please let's hear it.

David: +1

James: Just a busy week, I'll check my box.

TC: Any thoughts, questions?

(no one had any, the Council moved on to the next topic)

### "Fund program management program for 2026" leadership-council#255

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/255
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, proposed-final-comment-period, disposition-merge, I-council-nominated

TC: Unless there's objection, I'll talk through the background, then open the floor the questions/thoughts.

TC: We'd allocated 240k USD for the program originally and planed to spend all in 2025 for two people. We didn't do that, because we thought the 2026 budget might be zero. Now we know it's not. The reasons for expanding the program: sustainability, bandwidth -- Niko and the rest of us are spinning up the Goals program, we're going to spin up the Edition work again. We're seeing the bandwidth limitation. Tomas is doing great work and we need more. Tomas needs to be able to take vacation. We need some base level of capacity. What this all comes out at: it's about $300k per year for at least 2 program managers. I'd like to end the year with about three months in reserve with the allocations. We're carrying over $140k for the original allocation. That's still included in the $650k. The ask is $160k that we haven't previously allocated. What that money does is to continue pay Tomas, hopefully hire at least one more person and extend the capacity. I propose FCP merge on that and now I'm opening the floor for questions.

The room: thumbs up

TC: We have checkboxes from everyone except Eric and I know he'll check the box.

### "Should we join GSoC 2026?" leadership-council#253

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/253
- **Labels:** question, I-council-nominated

Jakub: Asking every year just to get thumbs up. Are there any concerns joining it this year? The program was successful, Google even paid the mentors a bit too. Unless there are concerns, I'd delegate this to the mentorship team to say we're doing this every year.

TC: My understanding is we're not making a decision because we already did delegate this to the mentorship team. So I'm interpreting this as it being raised to us for visibility. But we've already made the decision to delegate this to the mentorship team.

Jakub: The Council delegated to decide how to spend the funds. But we've not officially delegated the rights to enter into GSoC every year. I'm happy with just thumbs-up here or we can do an FCP to make it explicitly clear.

James: Let's go ahead and do that so we don't have to deal with this next year. I think it's great for the funding and delegating to be delegated to the team.

TC: What I understand from Jakub around the delegation is: our decision in [issue 153](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/153) where we chartered the team, we created the ongoing team about that to delegate the management of the GSoC project. My expectation was we delegated the continuing participation to the team.

Eric: That was my understanding as well that we already delegated this.

Jakub: Thanks and let's move on.

TC: So, we will be joining Google Summer of Code if the mentorship team wants to.

### "Discuss how to spend funds for supporting maintainers" leadership-council#245

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/245
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated, A-budget

TC: For context, Eric and I talked about making a proposal here. But I'm happy to defer to January 2026. It's worth looking into what we've done previously, analyze our grants program and come up with a proposal to structure this out in 2026. It would be worth discussing any ideas, inclinations to try and guide the process.

### "Discuss Rust Foundation Maintainers Fund" leadership-council#242

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/242
- **Labels:** A-foundation, I-council-nominated

TC: Jakub, you want to tell us what we've learned recently?

Jakub: We plan to talk to team leads and other Project members. Some committee members prepared a set of questions for the interviews. Niko would also like to speak to other orgs that have fellowships (e.g. the Sovereign Tech Fund). We've merged the document so it's easy for other people to send RPS and issues. We want to create a separate zulip thread for each question.

Jakub: The Foundation said that the at least in the beginning, employment won't be possible.

Niko: I think you covered the major points. Slow and steady progress. We're also publishing the minutes and notes in the public stream.

TC: Tyler wanted me to pass along this: he had a conversation with Bec. His takeaway is that the Rust Foundation Maintainers Fund is only one source of funds. If we want to take money for another way to do this, we could spin up another program.


## Topics we didn't get to

* "Discussion: Updating and Formalizing Council Expectations for Project Director Communication" [leadership-council#230](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/230)
    * TC: We should read the document, let's all be sure to have a look at that.

P-high issues:

* "Review and organize overall project team structure" leadership-council#33[(https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33)
* "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" leadership-council#41[(https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41)

Issues that need a council decision:

* "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" leadership-council#24[(https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24)

Active issues:

* "Document the council's internal decision making process" leadership-council#31[(https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31)
* "Establish team charters" leadership-council#44[(https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44)
* "Find homes for launching pad teams" leadership-council#118[(https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118)

Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo:

* "Allow messages from observers during meetings" leadership-council#110[(https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110)
* "rust-foundation-project-director.md: use more clear language" leadership-council#215[(https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/215)
* "Add alumni policy" leadership-council#218[(https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/218)
* "project directors: responsibilities" leadership-council#250[(https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/250)
* "Raise travel grant limit to $100,000 for 2026" leadership-council#254[(https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/254)

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

(no one raised anything)

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
