# Council meeting 2025-11-21

## Attendance

- Council members: TC, James Munns, Jakub Beranek, Eric Huss, Josh Stone, Oli, Mara
- Foundation Project directors: David Wood, nikomatsaki
- Foundation Staff: Lori
- Observers: tshepang mbambo

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Tomas Sedovic

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: plan this week: go through the updates that we normally do. Then, try to get items un-nominated. Nominated items should be something concrete we should talk about. If it's something that's important to us, we should track it, make it a priority and un-nominate it. Once we have something to talk about, we'll nominate it again.

TC: My proposal is to go through all open items quickly and see if there's anything for us to do.

TC: What do people think about that?

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

TC: (Talked through the plan.)

TC: Hearing support and no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Nominated issues

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated, A-program-management

Tomas: Project Goals updates for September and October are now published. So is the Program Management update for October. Eric Huss has agreed to help out with reviewing so there's less burden and bus-factor on TC.

TC: Thanks to Eric Huss for stepping in to help out with reviews on the Project goal and program manager updates.  I'd never planned to be the only one reviewing these, so it's great to have as much support here as possible.  Eric and I talked through what's been being done on these reviews.  If something looks good to Eric, it looks good to me.

Tomas: I've been discussing project goals with Niko and he's posted a proposal for how we'll run the program going forward. Summary: it will be annual, Flagship goals will be approved during Q1, Project members can add goals any time provided they have reviewers etc. We'll also require a named reviewer for each goal.

Tomas: Availability in December: I plan to take two weeks off in December from: 2025-12-22 to 2026-01-02. That should hopefully not be too disruptive. I might also need some more sporadic time off to take care for our child after a minor surgery in the first half of December.

Tomas: I'd also like to make sure I don't overbill the Project and discuss strategies for my time to fit in the budget.

TC: Let's gather the numbers, discuss that async and bring a proposal in front of the LC once that's done.

Tomas: Sounds good.

### "Discuss Rust Society proposal" leadership-council#159

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/159
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

Current status: https://gist.github.com/jamesmunns/10f73ad9e42b940791871ab9aedae76a

James: I've opened up some teams PRs today to close teams that can be closed. To rename others. For the rust-sec team we need to figure out how to move that forward. The other was the website/web-presence team. There was a proposal to move to Infra. We need to figure out who would help resolve that, add it to the website etc.

James: Next step, reach out to folks likely to become the Society team. And reach out to the people interested in being admins and get that going.

James: I'll start Zulip threads for that.

TC: Are you happy with this item being nominated and giving regular updates?

James: I'm happy to have it unnominated and I'll nominate it when there's something to talk about.

### "Contributor Survey" leadership-council#222

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/222
- **Labels:** question, S-triage, I-council-nominated

Jakub: The Survey finished on Wednesday. We had 133 responses. I generated a PDF with the results. I've shared this with the private Council thread. I hope the results can be used for the maintainer funding discussion. And eventually publish a blog post. And run the survey again at some point in the future.

TC: Did anything stand out?

Niko: Where did you post the data? Is it council private?

Jakub: We mentioned explicitly in the survey the data will be shared with the Foundation. We got values on how much funding people would need and most would fit between $10k-$15k USD/month.

TC: Do you want to keep it nominated?

Jakub: I'll unnominate.

### ~~"[launching-pad] Find a home for the Secure Code WG" leadership-council#140~~

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/140
- **Labels:** A-teams, I-council-nominated

I'll follow up with a Zulip thread for this instead of discussing in the meeting.

James: We discussed this in the zulip thread, we don't need to discuss it. I've unnominated it.

### "Add Graydon Hoare to the Rust website" leadership-council#231

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/231
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

Jakub: We have enumerated all the alumni. Graydon is missing. Someone came up with an idea to create an "initial designer" marker team.

James: Did we ask Graydon?

Jakub: I don't remember, but we'll definitely ask him.

Mara: Graydon said he didn't want to be listed as a designer. He would be okay being listed with a "team lead" of alumni if we want that, but he didn't seem enthusiastic.

Jakub: We now have a T-All group for everyone in the Project. Is anyone against creating a private Zulip chat with all the Project members (as a complement to all@)

TC: That sounds great. I undertood that as implicit in the discussion for requiring a Zulip ID for every Project member.

TC: Can I un-nominate this item?

Jakub: Yes.

### "Discussing "Project Representative" needs" leadership-council#226

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/226
- **Labels:** A-communication, I-council-nominated

TC: Did we talk about this in a meeting?

James: We talked about this. The response was "eh, if we have funds, we should spend them on something else". It's about having someone being on-call for press statements etc. We can close it.

TC: When we un-nominating something, it's good to leave a comment summarizing what we talked about. Helps people following it to understand what happened.

### "Explicit team membership term durations" leadership-council#175

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/175
- **Labels:** question, I-council-nominated

James: This came up from jyn. Effort to avoid burnout. Having a regular check-in whether people are still involved/interested. And having a soft term limit for leads just to provide an easy offramp / check.

TC: I remember that we talked about including a link in the yearly email to let people know that if they want to stop, they can just click here and be removed.

James: I'll look at the notes and attempt to close it before the next meeting.

### "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" leadership-council#41

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41
- **Labels:** S-active, A-foundation, P-high, I-council-nominated

TC: Longstanding nomination of ours. James you were the last one to nominate in January. Do we want to leave this nominated? Is there something concrete to discuss?

James: This is probably superseded by the discussion to define roles for the PDs. I'd close this as a dupe of that one.

Eric: I committed to writing down what our process is so we can build on it. I still plan to do it.

TC: Makes sense. So maybe un-nominate it and once we have the document we can discuss it again.

### "Establish team charters" leadership-council#44

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure, I-council-nominated

Eric: It's fine to un-nominate. I keep committing to writing the RFC. I'll try.

oli: I think we should close the explicit term duration as a duplicate of the chartering. The chartering should include how to handle members who are not here any more.

James: Sounds good to me.

Eric: I don't think that was supposed to be the outcome of that. I think the resolution of that issue was reminding people they're on a team and allowing them to opt out.

TC: That matches my recollection.

James: We should look at the notes first and then check with Manish whether that's what they meant. Then we can close it.

Eric: When we discuss something in a meeting, how do we make sure it gets updated in the issue. In Cargo right after the meeting I go through and make sure all issues are update. Can we do something similar here?

TC: I'd suggest whoever nominated it should take responsibility to communicate the outcome back to the issue.

Eric: We don't have to make a decision right now. I was just noting this as an issue.

### "Discussion: Updating and Formalizing Council Expections for Project Director Communication" leadership-council#230

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/230
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC: Let's talk about where this is. Is there a proposal on the table? What's the next step procedurally.

James: David put together a proposal that's linked in the issue.

TC: Looks like there's a proposal, more of us need to look at it and then maybe update our policies. Maybe we leave this one nominated until that happens.

James: Sounds good. David was trying to write up something that could be FCPd.

### "Discuss Rust Foundation Maintainers Fund" leadership-council#242

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/242
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

oli: I started something on Wednesday without getting consensus on that. We have a nomination period except there's been no nomination. We should figure out what we're doing now.

TC: When you put that up, people reached out to me that they wanted to add their nominations. I have questions on whether we need to do quite that. This sounds like a proposal where we solicit mini PD election. What powers are we granting this team that necessitates us choosing the subcommittee. Why can't lcnr and Jakub just do this without the Council.

oli: There's no extra power. But we need to clarify who's doing this so we can post everyone to them.

TC: I don't mind having multiple RFCs. I'm happy for Jakub and lcnr to talk to people and do interviews and put an RFC together. But I don't think they need to be authorized to be the only ones to do this. Then it's within our powers to consider the proposal and do what we want with it. This proposal seems a little over-complicated to me. I'm not sure it's adding enough value for what that would cost us.

oli: That sounds good to me. I'll write a blog post saying I made a mistake and let them run this.

Mara: It would be nice if they could say they're operating with the blessing of the Council. And the Foundation will want to work with some Project people. So it would be nice if we can tell the Foundation to work with them. Putting some stamp on would be good.

Lori: I disagree that it doesn't mean a lot. I've spent so much time this week on this. We had meetings this week that turned into an amazing document. The Foundation needs structure and it needs this to move. When the Foundation gets structure, it needs to know how to proceed. The LC needs to provide a guidance on what to do with this money. I want to move this forward with the process dictated by you and people you approve.

Niko: I wanted to offer to connect whoever these people were to Alpha-Omega and the Scala Foundation whom I talked to in the past about this. I don't feel like I want to do that for an open-ended set of people. It's difficult to have the conversation in a structured way without knowing who these people are. I'd like to give them my perspective to.

James: Can we FCP the delegation for this? FCP who's responsible for this and set up a subteam?

oli: My original plan was the to start an issue and FCP for exactly the people who are doing it now. I think we should just do that. But I felt that wasn't democratic of me just choosing three people. But I still think these are the right people.

James: I don't have better ideas. I'm in favor of having someone being responsible for it. I'm +1 for FCP-ing someone to be responsible concretely.

TC: I sympathize with Niko and other ones to have a group of people identified. Do we just want to take oli's selection to pick? Have a nomination&selection process?

Lori: There was already a call for nominations. Wouldn't the call for nominations be done next Wednesday? We may have the names given to you and you all vote on that? Why don't we need an RFC.

TC: There's a difference between oli suggesting a call for nomination and the Council explicitly calling out a call for nominations.

Mara: The simplest thing is to say these people have done a great job and they could decide whom to include. If we have a consensus, we can move that.

oli: A second nomination would be even more confusing.

TC: I want to see the group write out a charter for what the subteam's scope is. What it's trying to achieve, what it's asking for in terms of delegation or authority from the council.

TC: I want to move it forward to, but I want to note that we may surprise people. I have responsibility to proxy for people coming from my team who are interested.

Mara: We now have three people who had long meeting, worked together, produced the document, we completely trust them. They're working at great pace and the worst thing now would we to ask them to create the charter. That would kill the momentum and burn them out.

Jakub: Even the three of us have different expectations and so some document describing what is the goal of this team. I thikn we should continue with what oli did, get the list of nominations. The three of us will keep do what we were doing in parallel. And we can move forward this Wednesday. This is time critical, I don't think we should delay.

Lori: Timing is definitely of the essence. There's the Project Priority budget. That is money that can be spent while this is all being formulated. I second Mara on not having us create a charter. If the Leadership Council can clarify what exactly we're working out we can make that clear for people coming in. Yesterday it was eye opening when we all had different ideas of what we should be doing. I'm asking from the Foundation standpoint for the LC to outline what the next steps are and pick the people so we can move forward in a proactive manner. And Jakub, lcnr and I can keep working in parallel. It's frustrating for this to keep moving in different directions, coming back to original proposals etc. The clarity from LC would be great.

Niko: I appreciate the desire to get things done and strongly second them. But a lot of people have thoughts and feelings about this. I feel a little panicked hearing this and I'm as close as I can be. I can only imagine how a member of the compiler might feel. I want to encourage us to ask what do we really need to do fast? And where we can at least write a blog post. Communication's not been great. Do we need to have a plan by January 1st? I don't know. We need something.

Lori: I'm not saying we need the full plan by Jan 1. I was thinking end of Q1. I was very excited when lcnr and Jakub were asked to start. 

TC: I want to echo everything Niko said. I feel what Jakub said about identifying differences in the subgroup is something that makes it useful to write this down. To clear it up. A risk in creating this group is: why we don't intend them to create a decision, when I hear what Lori's looking for in terms of clarity, I fear people might misunderstand that this is not coming from the Council.

TC: I think what oli did was good, but people could take away a different message from this.

Mara: It may make sense to decide on a point of contact, not necessary that their decisions will be final.

Oli: One thing we can do is, we've started the public ask for nominations until Wednesday, next Weds we have the list of names, make a decision by Friday, start FCP, potentially shorten the comment period. I don't think we need to change things in major ways. Current people are happy to continue if we tell them what we want

TC: Note that next week is Thanksgiving and US-based people are likely to be out at least for the latter half of the week.

Jakub: Good to clear up what the specific goals are. The Rust Foundation ask is more timely as they are finding sponsors, the Project's process is expected to take a longer amount of time. At this moment, the Foundation is not considering employment, but this is not necessarily a hard constraint. The goal of this group is to provide input for the Rust Maintainer Fund, if that makes sense.

Oli: Yes, I think we should focus this on "how the foundation's money is distributed", feeds into how we structure this, and how we can pay people, which may be complicated in countries like Germany. Figuring out those details is the important part. There are critical things like "who do we pay" to figure out in the shorter term.

TC: (to Oli) what are the next steps?

Oli: Say what we want the group to do, and allow the nomination period to elapse. We should give instructions of what we want to see come out of this cooperation. Nominations we can discuss async. We need to figure this out in the next week.

Jakub: We should make it clear that this process is about the Rust Foundation Maintainer Fund. This is about a specific initiative and nothing else.

TC: Procedurally I'd like to make a consensus decision (Zulip Poll, FCP), about what we are approving specifically.

Eric Huss: Is it intentional the group has to be small/exclude people?

Oli: Yes, too large of a group will prevent this being effective. We should quickly get a group organized and continue working on it.

TC: Clarifying: we all agree we've not made a decision yet, and we need to do that somewhere, correct?

Oli: Yes

Eric: I am sympathetic, but if we select people by fiat then this could lead to resentment. We have not done anything like this before, and we do have a committee system for things like this, but have not excluded people like this before. Where TC started: if you want to go write an RFC you don't need delegated authority, which makes this weird or has tension.

Oli: Okay to reach out to nominees and keep this moving along, I don't expect nominees to be upset. We can talk to people as we are in this together.

TC: I felt what Oli did was okay because Oli has the authority to do so, but when it starts representing the council we want to see more, and what our expectations are. Felt that initial comments were "you aren't allowed to make that proposal". Need to be careful how we frame this.

## Topics we didn't get to

P-high issues:

* "Review and organize overall project team structure" [leadership-council#33](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33)

## Issues that need a council decision

* "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" [leadership-council#24](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24)

Active issues:

* "Document the council's internal decision making process" [leadership-council#31](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31)
* "Find homes for launching pad teams" [leadership-council#118](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118)

Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo:

* "Allow messages from observers during meetings" [leadership-council#110](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110)
* "rust-foundation-project-director.md: use more clear language" [leadership-council#215](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/215)
* "Add alumni policy" [leadership-council#218](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/218)
* "Add minutes for 2025-11-07" [leadership-council#243](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/243)

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
