# Council meeting 2025-02-28

## Attendance

- Council members: Mark, Mara, Eric Holk, Eric Huss, TC, James Munns, Oli
- Observers: Santiago Pastorino

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Mark

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: Hearing no objectons, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

## Nominated issues

### "Guests to invite to the all-hands" leadership-council#158

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/158
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, P-urgent, I-council-nominated

TC: Mara asks:

> We invited the project goal (task) owners. (Most of them were already project members, but 12 were not.)
>
> Two things to discuss:
>
> * Who else do we invite? (Accept nominations from project members, first come first served?)
> * Do we open up the travel grant programme for the invited guests (who are not project members)?

What do we think?

Mara: Project goal owners were invited. Four out of twelve have said yes so far. We have about 40 spots left.

Mara: From the initial form submissions, we had 13 self-described contributors, 2 alumni, 2 community members. We didn't invite them yet.

Mara: We also have folks asking about bringing guests alongside them.

Mara: Proposal: let's accept nominations from team members, on a first come first served basis.

Mark: One thought I have, and I don't know how much this is true: are there any cases where we know we want to collaborate with some group and that group includes many people?

Mara: If someone shows up with 10 nominations, I'll probably ask questions about that.

Mark: Generally, I'm in favor of accepting...

Mara: Do we want to make it a full council decision for every extra person we invite, or is it reasonable to just give me discretion on this?

Eric Holk: I think being generous with invites is good, especially existing collaborators. For the simple case of an existing collaborator this seems like it makes sense.

Eric Holk: Inviting people as guests suggests to me we should extend the same travel policy to them, presuming we have budget.

TC: If the people are doing something directly related to and in the interests of the Rust project, then inviting those people and offering travel grants makes sense to me.

TC: If the person is not a clear call on that metric, then that seems less of an automatic decision, especially for the travel grant.

Mara: I propose we require nomination from someone on a Rust team -- specifically, "I want to discuss something with this person", not just someone who is a "friend" or because it "sounds fun."

TC: Sounds great to me. Here's a concrete proposal.  I propose that we delegate discretion to Mara to approve or deny requests, proposed by team members attending the event, under the above criteria, that the person's attendance will lead to interaction at the all hands that is valuable to the project.  Mara can decide on a case by case basis, depending on value to the project, to extend the travel grant policy to the invited person as well.

Eric Holk: Sounds right to me, but Mara, are you comfortable with the responsibility for making these decisions?

Mara: Fine with me. Currently not intending to be particularly restrictive (we have plenty of space). Travel funding is the only incremental expense, but it doesn't seem like a huge problem given current order of magnitude. Intend to accept all nominations, unless there are a lot more than expected.

TC: Treating Eric Holk as the second here, and seeing general support and no objections, we adopt as our resolution to make this delegation to Mara as proposed.

Mark: Given that Oli isn't here \[Oli joined midway through this meeting and after this discussion\], especially for invitations, it may be worth us cross-checking with the moderation team.

Mara: That's a great point. I'll write that down.

### "Discuss Rust Society proposal" leadership-council#159

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/159
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC: James has a proposal for a Rust Society:

https://gist.github.com/jamesmunns/cb93f9577a4c99d7f5f319bb22b4a28f

Let's discuss.  What do we think?

James: We seem to have rough consensus on a cross-functional team container respin of launching pad.

James: Doc has the gist of the proposal. One area that is possibly separate is the matter of domain WGs. One active proposal for that is a "Rust Society" that is external to the project.

James: The goal is to create a home for (essentially) organized user groups. This would include domain WGs, likely meetup/conference groups. The short goal for this meeting is to see if there is some interest/support on the Council side, and how we could go about setup.

TC: The Rust Society as proposed covers more than just domain WGs (e.g., "Rust London"). What is your sense of breakdown of focus on local and other enthusiast groups vs. the sort of domain-focused groups we've mostly been discussing?

James: Where we draw the line seems like the consistent difficulty we've faced. This provides for a very low bar ("can you organize yourself"). I'm not sure how this would break down, and as it's sort of intentionally open ended, perhaps we can't know.

Mark: One thought I'm having around the Foundation side of this in particular is whether we'd need to change the seats on the board of directors as a result of having a non-project non-membership interest within that body.  There's a part of me that says these groups may become dominated by industry bodies, and those groups already have representation within the Foundation.  It's something to think about.

TC: In the proposal, the Rust Society is framed as being a peer to the Foundation.  Is the idea here that the Rust Society would set up its own legal entity, do its own fundraising, hire its own staff if needed, etc., where the only ask of the Rust Foundation would be for a trademark license, or do you see this as still leaning on the Foundation for funding, staffing, legal backing, etc.

James: I wouldn't expect legal organizations to be a necessary step.

TC: Probably I think it would be to do what's proposed, or otherwise it would end up needing to lean on the Rust Foundation for these things.

TC: This is a kind of key organizational question.  There are two models here I'd see as plausible.  One is a kind of maximalist vision of this society where it does indeed operate as a peer to the Rust Foundation and sets up its own similar infrastructure.  The other is that it doesn't, and so will lean on the Foundation where necessary.  In the latter case, the way I'd strongly prefer for that to work is that it does so through the project.  We'd set up a team who would organize this on our behalf.  Those people would be project members, but the members of e.g. "Rust London" would not be.  Doing it this way avoids diluting the role of the Foundation, which is to support the project, and it avoids needing to renegotiate the Foundation's charter and bylaws.

TC: So I'm curious whether you do see the Rust Society as being a sort of peer to the Foundation, or whether the other model might make more sense?

James: How are project and Foundation related today?  Do you see the project as being "under" the Foundation?

TC: They're like a binary star system -- both interact equally with each other.  The role of the Foundation is to support the project with legal and financial infrastructure.  The role of the project is to do the work that justifies the existence of the Foundation and to direct the activities of the Foundation so as to best support that work.  I'd be concerned about any proposed rearrangement that might perturb this careful orbit and dilute the clarity of the Foundation's singular role as being to support the project.

James: We don't currently have a community team or similar, so an "under Project" organization doesn't seem like it would pan out based on our previous years of experience, as the people needed to do this work haven't appeared.

TC: Definitely agreed that the key bottleneck we've faced is the lack of people willing to do the substantial work that this requires. But I think that is the key constraint regardless of how we plan to organize this.  It's the key thing that needs to be solved for this to go forward in any form.

Eric Holk: I like this idea of a Rust Society where people can sign up.  It leaves it nicely open-ended where things don't need to be so categorized.  How to draw the org chart is interesting.  I think of the Foundation as an umbrella.  Right now the project and the Foundation are the two halves of Rust.  If we created it, I'm not sure I want a separate organization that's a peer to the Foundation.  The interesting question is whether this should be a peer of the project or under the project.  TC's point about diluting the purpose of the Foundation resonates with me.  This also brings up Mark's point about representation on the board.  We've been working to refocus the Rust project as an engineering organization.  But I don't know; engineering organizations need to talk with their customers also.

James: In this and previous discussions, people have seemed concerned both about diluting the mission of the Foundation and about diluting the mission of the project.

Eric Huss: I'm probably going to repeat what TC said, but +1 that having people willing to do this substantial work will be key here. I didn't think that not having a community team was due to a lack of desire, but more of a consequence of it and the core team falling apart, and then forming the council, and then we being busy and not able to put effort into standing it back up.

TC: Agreed.  To James' point about the concern of diluting the role of the project, the dilution of the Foundation's attention is by far the more serious concern for me.  My feeling is that we could manage this on the projec side.

TC: On the project side, my main concern is about diluting our membership, and consequently the representation of that membership on the council, by including as members people who are not contributing in a direct way to the work of the project.  But like Eric Holk said, it's entirely reasonable for an organization like ours to have people whose job it is to talk with our customers, and that's the sense in which I can see having a team whose work it would be to organize and facilitate this.  Those people would be project members, but the people and groups with whom they are facilitating interaction, on behalf of the project, would not be.

James: Something more like the advocacy group where each group nominates 1-2 people to represent their group into a shared community team or so? I received pushback on that for "what are they delivering on behalf of the project"? Challenge is always -- where do we draw the line? If there are 30 ecosystems, should that get 60 people in the project advocating for each of these different interests?

TC: Probably that's the rub, and the difference between that and what I think might work here.  The project members should not be advocates or representatives of those interests.  Project members should be advocating for and representing the interests of the project, and doing that in this regard by cultivating and organizing the ecosystem, facilitating communication, etc. on behalf of the project.  If they are primarily advocating for interests that are not ours, then those people should not be project members.

Eric Holk: It would also be easier to create this within the Project.  We can just decide to do it, and it doesn't need to involve other people (e.g., the Foundation board).

James: So the organizers are members but 600+ members of chapters are not members? This is why I shoved it outside the project -- as it avoids this question.

Eric Holk: My initial impression is that the society team would be the administrative part of this. For example, they would approve new chapters, do periodic check-ins, etc. But the chapters themselves wouldn't be members.

Mark: One point about this being easier to do within the project... we have a fundamentally unsolved problem about who does this work.  It doesn't seem likely to me that the project will actually be able to create a team that does this.  I think the Foundation would similarly struggle without allocated budget.

James: There's a catch-22 here.  We can't recruit people to do this until we know what we're doing.  I'm trying to zoom out here.  My hope is to hopefully get some buy-in contingent on us getting some critical mass.  My hope is to get some initial conceptual buy-in.  I'd like to start hyping people up on it.  Then we can build on that.

TC: First, I agree with and would echo what Eric Holk said about who should be members and what the purpose of the team would be.  One recent example of this is how we set up the internship/mentorship team.  There, the people doing the administrative work on behalf of the project are project members, but neither the mentors nor the interns necessarily are.

TC: Perhaps, as a next step, so that James can try to hype people up as he mentioned, we could say that we have a lot of open questions here about organizational details, but we're broadly interested in doing something to better organize or facilitate community interaction, and then ask James to come back with people willing to help shoulder this substantial body of work.

Mark: We don't, I think, have any formal consensus here.

James: I'll update the report as a next step, with a goal of incremental buy-in on some portion of the proposal.

### "Update on 2025Q1 council elections" leadership-council#160

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/160
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC: We need to manage the reelection of three seats for the council, the ones for:

- T-compiler
- T-devtools
- T-launching-pad

We announced this here:

<https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2025/02/14/leadership-council-repr-selection.html>

Are there any updates or further asks for the council?

Eric Huss: There's nothing to ask here.  The teams just need to act in the next there weeks. I will do eligibility checks and affiliation checks.

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC: We're allocating budget in support of program management for Rust.

- https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/151

This is an update on the progress of the program.

We talked with Bec, Abi, Paul, and Joel at the Foundation this week about logistics and budgeting.

The next concrete step is we'll start putting things together to advertise to potential candidates.

I had previously clarified that the ask here was for 2025 and that the council would separately approve a 2026 ask.  Based on the conversation this week, I may later ask from us for an adjustment to this understanding so that we can offer contracts that would stretch into 2026 or beyond.  We won't do that today.

(End of meeting.)

### "GPU working group" leadership-council#155

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/155
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

### "[launching-pad] Find a home for the Security Response WG" leadership-council#141

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/141
- **Labels:** A-teams, I-council-nominated

### "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" leadership-council#41

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41
- **Labels:** S-active, A-foundation, P-high, I-council-nominated

### "Establish team charters" leadership-council#44

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure, I-council-nominated

## P-high issues

### "Review and organize overall project team structure" leadership-council#33

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33
- **Labels:** S-active, P-high, A-project-structure

## Issues that need a council decision

### "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" leadership-council#24

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-legal

## Active issues

### "Document the council's internal decision making process" leadership-council#31

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31
- **Labels:** S-active

### "Find homes for launching pad teams" leadership-council#118

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118
- **Labels:** S-active, A-teams, A-project-structure

## Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo

### "Allow messages from observers during meetings" leadership-council#110

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

TC: Hearing none, there are no clarifications.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
