# Council meeting 2025-04-11

## Attendance

- Council members: TC, Mara, Oli, Eric Huss, Josh Stone, James Munns, Mark Rousskov
- Observers: None

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: James Munns

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: We put the updates first, then discussion about any plans we might have for the council at the All Hands / Rust Week, then we can use the remaining time to discuss the updates that James has for the Rust Society proposal.

TC: Hearing affirmations and no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

None.

## Nominated issues

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC: We've received and reviewed dozens of applications, and Joel and I have conducted 12 interviews so far.  We have more lined up for next week.  At this point, we have two really solid candidates that also hit the number I was trying to hit for us.

### "Update on all-hands" leadership-council#169

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/169
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

Mara: Whole list of things to get through:

90% of folks have confirmed hotels

Covid policy published: https://rustweek.org/covid-policy-all-hands-and-unconf/

Mara: Wanted to gift swag for all project members, this was assigned to the Council, Mara is taking care of it

Mara: (preview of swag, no spoilers)

Josh Stone: Just for attending members, or also willing to ship?

Mara: Hadn't thought of that, might be challenges to shipping, we might want to follow up after the all hands
to consider what makes sense.

Mara: Regarding the celebration, we are expecting 300-350 attendees, all-hands plus unconf plus sponsors plus...
Will release Rust 1.87 on stage. Will have some speeches while this is occurring. Bec will be speaking,
do we want to have a council rep give a speech regarding the last ten years of Rust?

TC: Eric Holk is going to be there, has recently been preparing a talk regarding the history, so he might be a person to ask.

Mara: Anyone else that would be able to contrast then vs now?

Josh: Potentially Niko.

TC: Not sure when Niko is leaving.

Mara: Right after this.

TC: Then Niko would also be a clearly good person to ask.

Mara: Celebration will have a photo booth, games, snacks. One thing to potentially coordinate: Using this
as a press release moment. Could have a blog post or similar reflecting on Rust. We could potentially
send this out to press outlets.

Mark: Sounds like a good idea, Gracie or someone at the Foundation might be good to review or coordinate,
they do this more regularly.

Mara: Good to get help, but probably good for the message to come from the project. Anything in specific
we want to say to the world?

TC: Putting together a blog post for this would be a good way to pull together and iterate on these ideas. That post can then be syndicated.

Mara: Looking for blog post volunteers

Oli and James volunteered.

Mara: Working on room allocation and schedule (early draft on Zulip), 11 rooms, largest one allocated for plenary or
cross team sessions, with rotating hosts. Other rooms are aiming to schedule, some fully allocated, some
rotating (in roughly half day blocks), with assigned "owners" for each block.

Mara: Cross team sessions, Team Process + Policies, Rust Society, Rust Project + Rust Foundation, Apirino work session, Evolving how we evolve Rust, Build-std, some free spots left.

Mara: We decided not to have a Council Room

Mark: Planned to reach out to Josh Triplett and a Foundation person regarding the Signing process, All Hands
might be a place to do that. Reserve an Infra + Council session?

Mara: Could you put in the channel?

Mark: Will do.

Mara: Tyler is organising a room for C++ interop, invited some (vetted) folks from C++ world. Positive RSVPs

Mara: The full attendees list is available to all: it is the member list of the #all-hands-2025-private zulip channel.

Mara: Anything else?

TC: Moving on.

### "Discuss any Leadership Council plans for Rust Week?" leadership-council#167

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/167
- **Labels:** question, I-council-nominated

James: We had discussed this in passing in the last meeting.  We're not going to have a quorum there, and people will be spending time with their other teams, so probably we don't want to do anything as a council there.

Oli: We'll be passively collecting things that we might want to raise with the council later.  But we probably won't want to do anything as a group.

James: Sounds right, and I'll close this issue.

TC: Anything more you need to know Mara?

Mara: Probably I'd appreciate if everyone here would check with their own teams to ensure they have what they need for the all hands.

Josh: Usually good to have "talk to leadership" sessions, something to keep in mind.

### "Discuss Rust Society proposal" leadership-council#159

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/159
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

James: I went over the notes last time.  The new write-up is here:

https://github.com/jamesmunns/rust-society

The direction is toward launching-pad being a cross-cutting team.  On the Rust Society, there's some interest, but there are a lot of open questions.  In the new document, I tried to talk about what the benefits would be, what the relationship with the Project and the Foundation would be, what the expectations of chapters would be, etc.  I pinged Ernest and asked him for feedback there.  My next step would be to ping the other usual people, including the Foundation.  I'm interested in following up to understand what the next steps toward consensus would be.

Mark: I had a chance to read it this morning.  I think it generally asks the right questions.  I'm not sure how we arrive at consensus on this.  Things seem a bit nebulus.

Eric Huss: Have you thought about moderation or about what groups you would allow to join?

James: There will be an entity responsible for the chapters who would be doing the curation.  There would be a requirement for chapters to have a documented and enforced code of conduct.  That hits many of the marks but maybe not everything that would come up in terms of moderation.  As described, this allows overlapping scopes for chapters, so one solution would always be for someone to start or join a competing chapter.

TC: Let's take five minutes to read the new proposal and discuss.

Josh Stone: You set out two possible positionings, but then the second page kind of assumes the more independent positioning rather than it being part of the Project.  Is that how you see it?

James: That is my preference, but I don't think it's a big refactor if things go one way or the other.

TC: (Thoughts on how to kickstart this.)

James: This gets to the catch-22 that I mention at the end.  I'm not sure I have the social capital to kickstart this more than once.  I think this proposal is asking people to yell now if they don't agree with this.  Because the next step is probably to start organizing.  I think we probably get one shot at this.

Mara: Maybe the next step is to collect feedback at the All-Hands.

James: There are probably two things that can be done there.  One is to make sure there are no outstanding complaints or concerns.  The other is to try to start collecting folks.  The folks at the unconf are the people I'd expect to be most interested.  So yes, I'm expecting to have many conversations about this.

James: It is a reasonable stopover point to start with a team in the launching pad.

---

TC: OK, that brings us to time and to the end of the items we planned to discuss today.

### "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" leadership-council#41

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41
- **Labels:** S-active, A-foundation, P-high, I-council-nominated

### "Establish team charters" leadership-council#44

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure, I-council-nominated

## P-high issues

### "Review and organize overall project team structure" leadership-council#33

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33
- **Labels:** S-active, P-high, A-project-structure

## Issues that need a council decision

### "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" leadership-council#24

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-legal

## Active issues

### "Document the council's internal decision making process" leadership-council#31

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31
- **Labels:** S-active

### "Find homes for launching pad teams" leadership-council#118

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118
- **Labels:** S-active, A-teams, A-project-structure

## Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo

### "Allow messages from observers during meetings" leadership-council#110

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

TC: Hearing none, there are no clarifications.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
