# Council meeting 2025-09-12

## Attendance

- Council members: TC, Eric Huss, oli, Josh Stone, Mark Rousskov
- Observers: Eric Holk, Tomas Sedovic

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Tomas Sedovic

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: Hearing support and no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

### Alumni policy

Eric Huss: I haven't have a time to look at it yet. The council survey summary is also stuck; I didn't get to it yet.

TC: The council update you put out on 10th received uptake on Reddit. And Tomas's update is getting that too. People are reading it.

### Check in on PD elections

Tomas: Quick refresher on the dates.  The candidate nominations are due on the 18th.  I've just posted a call for nominations on the PD thread.  I plan to do another one on Tuesday or Wednesday next week.  Right now we have two people nominated.  David Wood and TC.  So we need to have at least one other person.  I haven't seen in the documents what to do if we don't get enough nominees.  The election is October 3rd.

Mark: I'm planning to stand as well, so that will provide a third.

Mark: Do we have clarity on whether David Wood and TC could join the other two given the affiliations limit policy?

TC: David works for Arm, and we have no conflicts there.  Similarly, my affiliation does not cause a conflict.

TC: Regarding what we do if we don't have enough people, we go back to our favorite people and lean on them until someone says "yes".

Josh: Are we going to have difficulties with quorum if two candidates are going to recuse themselves?

TC: From lang I can send someone.

Mark: Infra rep is probably going to change in the council.

## Nominated issues

### "Start leadership council selections" leadership-council#211

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/211
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: Anything we need to do here?

Eric Huss: I think we're looking good on that. Infra's going to make a selection. I think libs is probably going to pick Mara again. I think we're fine.

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated, A-program-management

TC: The August PM update received significant coverage, e.g. on Reddit, so that's exciting.  It's good to have confirmation of our communication succeeding to communicate.  That the post covered variadic generics and reflection may have been part of this.

Tomas: The RFC for the 2025H2 goal slate has been merged.  I talked with Niko; we did it late again -- life intervened for some Project members.  It was also difficult to collect all the checkboxes since people were out in August.  We're talking about how we might be able to rearrange things to make that less of a problem.  Niko is also interested in how to make himself less of a bottleneck.  That might result in me running more of the program -- maybe all of it.  As much as I can take on, I will.  We'll be talking later about what that means exactly.

Regarding the latest PM update, I did try to go a bit wider and deeper to provide more context.  On things like variadic generics and reflection that I know people are interested in, I went into some detail, and that seemed useful.  It is a change to the format of the update, so I'm interested in any feedback there.

Eric Huss: Someone talked about doing a retrospective on the goals program and how effective it's been.  That seems appealing to me.  In the context of making changes, it'd be good to talk about that in the context of such a reflection.

Oli: On the goals RFC, I hadn't seen that was merged.  Was there some kind of blog post about it?

Tomas: Not yet.

Tomas: There was a C/C++ interop workshop at RustConf.  I want to make sure that some communication goes out publicly about what happened there.  I'll write that up and have the people who were there review it.

### "Discuss Rust Society proposal" leadership-council#159

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/159
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC: James isn't here, so we'll skip this.

### "Planning and resolution for 2026 Project Priorities budget" leadership-council#183

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/183
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, finished-final-comment-period, disposition-merge, to-announce, I-council-nominated, A-budget

TC: Lori's not here, but what I can say is that Lori and I have talked about it. What she said at the last council call is the the next step. We'll write up a document that outlines the amounts of what the actual expenditures of the Project Priorities budget were last year. We've been spending around 100k for travel (rather than the 75k we planned), so we'd budget the higher amount. We're getting value out of the compiler-ops position; we'll budget the $60k needed for that. Etc. We'll look at the list, add it all up, and add some extra to have flexibility to address the other things that will come up. And that's what we'll ask of the Foundation. We'll talk about the Program Management program. We'll say we have this funded out through the next year but not beyond that, so it's something we'll need to think about for medium term planning.

That is, this document will be more numbers-focused than our earlier resolution.

Eric Huss: How do you want to position something like the All Hands? The Foundation will not be supporting it next year?

TC: What do peeople think about that? Last year we supported it from the Project Priorities budget using our discretionary funds. We thereby expressed that as a priority to us. We could put that in there if we think that's a number we want to continue doing. What do people think?

oli: We should at least have Mara in the room when we talk about that. It would be tight if the money had to come entirely from RustWeek, but it could conceivably get done.

TC: There were two pieces there: whether or not we provide support for the event itself and whether or not we provide travel funding for the event. They were assuming that we're not going to fund the event itself but that we'd still provide the travel funding.

oli: And I think a lot of people in the community will expect that again.

Josh: That's what I remember. As long as we still have a general travel fund, I'd leave it to individuals' discretion whether they go to RustWeek or use it for something else.

TC: The Foundation raised that if we have an event where we're encouraging everyone to go, many people will exhaust their budgets to travel there. In that way, it does make much of the travel budget look like it's the really part of the All Hands budget.

oli: I agree this is something that feels weird, but I also don't see an alternative. Possibly that alternative is paying people to go both there and to some other place. And that requires a larger budget.

TC: With respect to project grants, there's interest in refactoring the grants program. I think what's going to make sense is to shift the project grants money into the Project Priorities budget and make it our problem how to allocate that.

The Project Priorities budget is a set of things that are difficult to fund due to being core maintenance activities of the Project, e.g. the travel budget, program management, etc. And project grants is similar.

The reason it the program struggled before is because there wasn't enough accountability. To improve accountability, it would help if we were responsible for it. Then we have a direct interest in getting our money's worth.

oli: There's a parallel system going on to figure out how to pay maintainers. And the Foundation explicitly signed off on that happening. Big co's are paying money to possibly RustNL, Ferrous Systems, etc., that would then go to the maintainers. I want to make sure we don't produce a parallel thing without communicating with the others. Because some of these will produce something like the project grants program. I want to make sure everything's on the table and we're talking to all the parties.

Mark: One of the things we should be very careful about is that this bucket has been easy for the Foundation to cut because it's been an amorphous set of things the Project wants to fund. I.e., it's not a salaried position or something. When the Foundation produces a report, they have a list of concrete things funded and then the amorphous Project Priorities budget. So it looks like overhead.

TC: I agree that's a risk. In the document we need to write, we can go a level deeper there and explicitly show the specific things that we're funding. Then these reports can focus on the specific items in the way you mentione.

I do think there's an important alignment point with directing the funds from our side.

Consider Tomas's position here. There was a lot of concern before we hired Tomas due to how other hires on the Foundation have gone, in terms of struggling to engage with the Project. That's due, I'd suggest, to there not being direct accountibility to Project teams. 

That's why we were careful in the PM hire to structure it so that while the Foundation is paying out of our budget and legally making the hire, the purpose of the role is to make the Project and particular teams in the Project happy. And on the Project side, if we're not happy, we'll stop allocating the money. This structure expresses this connection directly; it makes the work accountable to the Project.

That's the tradeoff. If we fund a full-time role from the Foundation side it's "stickier", perhaps, than budget on our side that may be harder to fund. But it's harder to align the effort with the Project. So that's the challenge we need to reconcile.

### "Discuss Project inputs to Foundation three year strategy" leadership-council#197

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/197
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, A-foundation, I-council-nominated

TC: Do people have any more thoughts on this? My thoughts boil down to how to make the Foundation more successful. E.g,. to think about what the activities the Foundation could undertake, e.g. in organizing initiatives around safety critical, AI, interop, etc., that would be interesting to our various stakeholders and that would thereby create a better environment for the Foundation to attract members and raise funds. I've talked with people at big companies about how this sort of thing can make it easier to cut checks.

Eric Huss: One of the things we just talked about was funding maintainers to maintain. Is that something that would fit in this picture? Is that something we want the Foundation to do?

TC: I think it does fit in, and it's a reason for us to discuss the shape of that. The reason it fits in is because if it's something we want to do, that becomes an activity for the Foundation staff to set that up, do outreach, etc., to provide the structure. That becomes part of what we want the Foundation to look like in three years. So it's absolutely the sort of thing that makes sense in the plan.

One of the things I've talked about with folks at big companies is how it's hard for them to hire people but relatively easier for them to funnel money to companies under contract. Right now companies like Ferrous Systems are being used to intermediate that. It would be better for everyone if they could send that money directly to the Foundation and have it handle the intermediation. I've worked with other open source groups that have done something like this and I've seen that be successful.

oli: The problem is less with hiring people. It's more about having people working on things that don't follow the usual structure. E.g.. how to report on having a person working for 1+ years to do a specific thing. That's not something bigco's are keen on.

TC: That's part of why I mention them not wanting to hire peole directly. If it's contracted, the thing you mention is easier too.

Eric Huss: That makes sense. I'd like to see how the discussions go with Lori. How do you plan to do this -- do you plan to do this all async; should there be a more coordinated endeavor, etc.?

TC: Yes, maybe we want to set up a small work group on this. It's one of the reasons I've been keeping it on the agenda, so as to keep it top of mind and to get ideas about what we want to say. Having that will make it easier to write down.

Eric Huss: There are different higher and lower level objectives we could say. I don't know what's appropriate. You and I talked about crates.io security and that's on the mind of many people. We want these specific things done, e.g. improve crate ecosystem security, perhaps by funding or otherwise supporting more crates in the ecosystem as we're now doing with Rustls via the RIL. Do we want to propose things on this granularity? I don't know how we'd prioritize crates.io security vs. general maintainership vs. supporting Tomas etc.

TC: I do think this all fits in, and I don't think it overloads it at all. Part of the story here is that there's not a fixed pool of money where we're trying to prioritize how to spend it. What the document is about is we have a fixed pool of the attention of the staff. And we have to think about what are the activities we want them doing. And the most valuable thing they could be doing is bringing in more interest from people and therefore more money.

E.g., whenever I see events such as what happened recently to NPM, it makes me worry. Many others worry about this too. If by focusing on that, we can get more resources, get more people involved, get more attention, etc., then we expand our capacity for solving our own ecosystem security problem.

By expressing that this is a priority to us -- to become a leader in addressing the problem of supply chain and ecosystem security -- and that the Project is invested in it, it can create excitement and help the Foundation with organizing interest from stakeholders and raising funds.

Eric: In terms of the infrastructure budget, there are things like crater and the dev desktops. How do we think about this?

Mark: A good chunk of our infra budget is donated. E.g. Google funds crater. The same is true for GitHub actions, etc. Historically the Foundation has been willing to spend relatively small amounts of money for miscellaneous stuff where getting direct sponsorship is not sensible. My understanding it that's coming out of slush money; there's no budget dedicated to this.

If we're talking about CI time, e.g., it's possible we could cut costs 3x/4x with runners that we own and a dedicated person. Is that worth it? It depends on our sponsorship. Infra doesn't have any way of making those decisions. The council or Foundation is better positioned to do it.

It would be useful for us to have a "here's the pool of money" thing. But as TC mentioned, in reality there's no fixed pool of money. When we need something, we can create a proposal to get that thing. If e.g. Google stopped funding crater, someone else might step up.

(The meeting ended here.)

---

## Topics we didn't get to

Nominated:

* "Explicit team membership term durations" [leadership-council#175](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/175)
* "Minor Editorial Proposal for Upcoming Release Notes" [leadership-council#203](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/203)
* "Review of All Hands 2025" [leadership-council#177](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/177)
* "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" [leadership-council#41](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41)
* "Establish team charters" [leadership-council#44](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44)

P-high issues:

* "Review and organize overall project team structure" [leadership-council#33](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33)

Issues that need a council decision:

* "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" [leadership-council#24](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24)

Active issues:

* "Document the council's internal decision making process" [leadership-council#31](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31)
* "Find homes for launching pad teams" [leadership-council#118](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118)

Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo:

* "Allow messages from observers during meetings" [leadership-council#110](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110)
* "rust-foundation-project-director.md: use more clear language" [leadership-council#215](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/215)
* "Add alumni policy" [leadership-council#218](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/218)

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

TC: Hearing none, there are no clarifications.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
