# Council meeting 2025-10-10

## Attendance

- Council members: TC, Jakub Beranek, Josh Stone, Mara, Oli, Eric, James
- Observers: David Wood, Lori, Jack, tmandry, Niko

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Tomas

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: Hearing support and no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

## Nominated issues

### "Discuss Rust Society proposal" leadership-council#159

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/159
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

Skipped because James is not available.

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated, A-program-management

Tomas: I spent a lot of time preparing for the PD election.  I'm waiting for the Foundation to publish an announcement.  Then I'd like to pushing an announcement on the Rust blog as well.  I'd like to do a retrospective as well.  Do you want to do that as another meeting or offline?

Oli: I think async is probably best for that kind of document.

Tomas: I had some time to follow up on the Project goals repo.

Tomas: People have suggested that we publish a summary of the meeting.  Any thoughts?

TC: Sounds great to me.  Thoughts from others?

TC: Hearing none.  No objections, Tomas.  It'd go up on the council thread?

Tomas: Yes.  I also thought about maybe having a channel people could subscribe to for this.

### "Planning and resolution for 2026 Project Priorities budget" leadership-council#183

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/183
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, finished-final-comment-period, disposition-merge, to-announce, I-council-nominated, A-budget

TC: I put out a document last week to the Council private channel and posted to the PD channel. Niko had a look, what do you think?

Niko: I really appreciate the existence of the document.

TC: Do we care? I want this be an act of the Council, not just the TC show here. Niko expressed to me that it's important but it's got to be from all of us. I've been struggling to get engagement from people.

Mara: It's hard to discuss in detail. We don't know how much money there is. The scenarios for all hands and Program management all seem obvious. The unclear one is with the program grants. The other parts of the document seem pretty clear.

Niko: I think it's really valuable to know what are the kinds of things the Council thinks are important. It's helpful to have historical data. I agree with Mara that I don't think the document should even attempt to say exactly what would be done in 2026. Instead, say what we've done, this much money was put in, have thoughts for the future. We may want to generalize the project grants to general maintainership.

TC: I don't think the purpose is to say how many dollars we'll spend. It's about giving the Foundation an idea in a numerical sense of how much money we're thinking. It will provide them context and also, as they're seeking money from stakeholders, they can drill down and say in what way the money would be spent.

Lori: That's what we want. We don't have to know the money, but where do you want to allocate it. Travel is clear. Would you like to see something for the project goals? The compiler? rustfmt? Where do you see the most effective use of the funds. And with that grant program in mind, should we just get rid of it? Should we allocate portion to fellowships? But we also want to make sure the rest of the budget goes to solid outcomes. We have ideas but we want to know what outcomes you expect.

Mara: In that case I think this document needs a lot more work. It describes what we need to continue, but if it's more about what we want in the future, then we want to dream bigger. E.g. funding maintainers. If we're telling the Foundation and sponsors this is what needs money then we need to spell that out.

TC: Lori, tell us about how far forward it's helpful to look.  Is it helpful to look into the far future, is it helpful to have a view into 2026, etc.?

Lori: I think this is twofold: we want to know what you want to do in 2026 but also what are your bigger objectives? Would you like to see a certain percentage to always go to the funding of maintainers. We're looking at both the 2026 budget, but also the 3-5 year strategy. So this is where you can have your pie in the sky ideas. E.g. we could say we want 50% of the funds going to the maintainers, but in the future we'd like to see $1m USD for maintainer fund. Or specify that rustfmt is really imporant and you want to do something about that.

Niko: Lori, from your perspective, the suggestieons you were making seem more concrete. I was thinking more of painting a picture of where we'd want to go. E.g. saying that we'd want 5 full-time maintainers. I wonder about predetermining how we're going to get there.

Lori: I think the way you're looking at it Niko makes sense. And then we can drill down executionable items later. I think that's a good way going about the things. But if you want to be hardcore about the numbers, do throw the numbers in. It's important that you give us that information so we understand what the number 1 priority from LC aligned with PDs is. Then the Foundation can figure out how to pool the money. And if we fall short, we now know how to get more money to support it.

TC: One of the bigger, broader things fit into the three-year strategy. There's also the picture of what are some major funding initiatives we'd like to see -- e.g. funding maintainers and how to structure that. And then there's this concrete question about the project priorities budget to 2026. The project priorities budget was a pool of money that the Council was able to operate with autonomously. E.g. hiring Tomas didn't require a discussion with the Foundation. There's a very concrete thing we have to iron out: what that number is for 2026. Does that help clarify?

Niko: yeah, that's helpful. I imagined putting me in the shoes of the Foundation and how to decide to give funds. Mara, I think you're right we should look big. The question is: how to do it? TC's got a great start.

James: My understanding was the project goals would help fundraising efforts. We have a "features we want to see" list. I don't think we've assembled a similar "project debt" list. E.g. rustfmt is short on maintainers, the compiler etc.. We could come up with this and also feed this to the Foundation. Lori, is the phrasing of project grants as a marquee you can talk about to people? Would it help phrasing the project depbts in the same way?

Lori: Happy to have the LCs and PDs here all together -- I've been having these conversations individually. Regarding project grants, we can throw the word "grants" out the window and focus on contracting. I see the flagship goals and goals as concrete ways for going out and looking for funding. I think we need more metrics and reporting and having one paid maintainer doing that, showing issues that were done etc. -- these are the things we need to be reporting back. Thinking of the budget, I've already asked Joel to identify themes from the Flagship goals for things we want to recommend contracting out for. That was my idea but that's why we really want to see where you're at. We can take this and talk to stakeholders to reach goals either via funding or people.

James: I think it all goes into the same list to shop around rather than having different buckets.

Lori: We've done this for the security and C++ interop stuff. But we don't have this for Project priorities and so this is what we need.

Mara: The Project Priorities budget is great because we can make a decision and do. I think we should keep doing it. But I think we should not be budget managers. I want to have this budget to try things out. But after that, we want to graduate it without having to deal with these numbers every time we e.g. do an All Hands funding. I want us to be able to e.g. hire a compiler developer, but then we want it to continue without our continuous direct involvement. Having the money should be for us to do experiemnts.

Niko: I really like that framing Mara. Tho whole point of the project priorities budget is to be able to do experiments and if it works, set it up for a longer-term thing. James, I like the idea of the project debts. But the project goals was what I planned there. We could have "1 paid maintainer on every project" as a goal. If we had the goals and had different criteria for goals we're highlighting -- I'd like teams to highlight their goals -- they'd be able to tell what they need to keep working. You can't just fund all the goals, you can't just fund the top-priorities but you also want to have other goals.

Tyler: Right now the Foundation is supporting the Project -- they started with making sure the CI is running etc. but now the Foundation needs to level up and the Project Priorities is the next step. But now the Project should include maintainership. I don't think that requires a roadmap in terms of new features -- that could come in later -- but the maintainership should be clearly the next thing.

Oli: From a maintainer perspective we've noticed that companies are not shy from developing features. But the hard part is maintaining them. You don't want to leave that on someone who's on time pressure to develop features. I want to focus on the specific topic that authoring features isn't the main topic, it's getting the changes reviewed and handled.

TC: I want to push back gently on the idea that budget items should start in the Project Priorities budget and then move out of it. Things change over time. Maybe it makes sense for us to do an All Hands, but at some point it doesn't or other things become higher priority. Once we hand it off from our budget, we're losing some ability of making a comparative choice based on our priorities. It's unlikely that the Foundation will have an infinite amount of money to fund each successful experiment. And if we find something better, if it's not in our budget how can we express that we want to do that.

TC: In terms of us being budget managers: I see benefit in aligning our work with the Foundation. Us focusing on the budget makes it clearer to the Foundation side. It makes things more visible to us, makes it more concrete. It helps the Foundation understand what our priorities are. It's dificult to have a sustainable budget if we keep taking things out. Some of the things like All Hands and PM were large chunks of money. If we hand them over, we'll be left with much less money. The other part of the align mechanism is that by coming out of our budget, it means we can reallocate the budget. And where we struggled on the Foundation side, when the Foundation hired people it wasn't our problem. We weren't pressed to fix it. But I do see the point about the load about the leadership council.

James: Niko, I love the idea of combining both. And what Oli said, I've heard often that it's easier to add features. Having that debt surfaced on the Project Goals makes it more visible and let us discuss it, prioritise it.

Jack: The idea that once something is identified it moves to a line item on the Foundation. I think that's probably going to be for the long term easier for them to do for the Project. I think it's important to compare how existing items compare. But I'd imagine anything that gets moved to a more permanent budget, it's going to have some idea of what success looks like. If it comes down to it and those things aren't doing that, we can compare them to existing items. If the Foundation not have budget for them, we could talk about what we could sacrifice. And maybe the PDs could work with the Foundation to work out how to make everything happen, to see what the trade-off may be. I'm thinking about how the PDs could help.

Lori: I like the idea of taking stuff and moving them into a consistent line item. And we could have a retrospective at this year at this time. We could talk about how much money was spent, we'd think about that it was still valuable. Or if it wasn't well spent, the Council could tell the Foundation. Having this retrospective would help with the reallocation. There's always an opportunity to move money around. But from our standpoint, now we know moving forward that e.g. travel should be a 100k annually. I feel this is all working towards strengthening the back end forth between the Project and Foundation.

TC: I think that sounds great too. If we formalize a process for doing annual budget reviews. We should have more talks about that.

TC: The Foundation staff is having an onsite on October 19th. How do we going to give our input to them?

Lori: If you look at the document within the document that TC created. That's what we're working off of. When you look down at the 2025, just tell me what you want. We have the travel grant, Tomas covered, compiler ops covered. Of the rest: do you want 50% to go to the maintainers and 50% to experiment? That's what we need. When we meet together, Abi will have the most updated version of the budget, we'll try filling in the blanks. We'll have our recommendation which you can say yes or no to. But if before going in you tell us that half goes to maintainership and half to experiemns, cool. That's what we need. I'd say think you're playing with $300k excluding the travel budget.

TC: What are your thoughts about getting things to them.

Mara: We won't have a lot of time. It's more effective to hear the proposal and then decide. You've talked to us all, I hope you have enough recommendation.

Lori: I know travel is thumbs up. How much of the pot do you want to have open-ended? Is the expertiment paying maintainers, keeping the fellowship alive? Or keep it completely free?

Mara: Last time there were a lot of things we wanted to do and we had a lot of money. I think we will not have that much money for experiments. But it'd be great to be able to spend 20-50k if something comes up. But from everything I've heard in the past weeks is we're very happy with what we've done last time so let's keep doing that. And now maintainers are a big thing.

TC: Having money allocated to a specific thing would let us defer the decision. If we're specifically categorizing the budget as making experiments, that makes us of more tied to this. E.g. Tomas was being sick now, that's again bringing up that originally we wanted to have two people for the position.

Lori: I think if program management is important is, then let me know and we can figure that out. If PM is something we want to see as something the project wants, then we can have funds to contract a part-time position. If you want maintenance, cool. Just give me bullets. And we can figure out how much money we could put in. If PM is what you want, we don't know this until you tell us. Give us a list.

TC: Niko, what do we do here?

Niko: I feel what we were saying was to have something we can bring in to the Foundation as quickly as possible. We can bring what's been going and initiatives that we want. Mara mentioned we want some money for experiments. Is there anything else?

Mara: Project management. All Hands is handled by Rust NL, we need the travel.

Niko: This is the wish list.

Tyler: The Foundation is asking for input from the Project, please give them the input. The Project should be clear on the strategy, keeping the maintainership healthy. That includes PM, paying maintainers, training people to become better open source leaders.

Niko: I think we should delegate the finishging up the doc to TC or me or someone.

TC: I planned to take the thread that's currently in Council PD's private and move it to the Foundation PDs private so Lori can see it. ANd I'm hoping maybe Niko and I can hammer something out there. I think there's value in the Council making an affirmative consent that we're speaking in the Project voice. That maybe we can ratify something next week.

Niko: I think it's a good idea to get people to say yes or raise concerns.

Mara: Maybe each of us could give 5 bullet points and see how much overlap there is?

TC: Yes, if everyone could put in 5 points, that would be great. Note there's a section at the document of all the items we've ever talked about happening so please take a look at that.

Lori: I want to say how valuable this has been having all the of you here discussing it. The PDs will be in a meeting next week and this will help you bring the Project's perspective. Having the alignment between the PDs and LCs is going to be great. This gives us a structure of how we can move forward when we have things like this.

James: We should probably sit down now that we have this group to decide: who does the numbers, who's in charge providing what by when etc.

Lori: Would it be helpful if I had Abi join us for the next LC call?

TC+James: Yes, that'd be great. The more people you can get here from the Foundation, the better.


### "Discuss Project inputs to Foundation three year strategy" leadership-council#197

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/197
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, A-foundation, I-council-nominated

TC: Lori, this is another item where we're struggling here. It'd be easier for us to give feedback on. What are you going to be talking about and what opportunities will be there for the Project to give feedback.

Lori: I'm working on outreach/inreach, Gracie is doing marketing. By the end of the offsite we'll have an agreed-upon flow of what we're looking at. The theme we're looking at "Rust in production" and "Rust in the future" and how do we bring that to the Project. Focus on bringing in more people who are actually using Rust, what their pains and struggles are, bringing them to the Project itself, join the initiatives. How do we capitalize on the Rust Innovation Lab, growing things that were set forward.

TC: How do you see the communication back with the Project, timelines and how you might be able to help us.

Lori: In the last PD call we had good conversaiton on how the PD viewed what they felt like the Foundation should be moving toward. And this call is taking that into an account. Once we have the draft, we'll ask you for comment. And if you have comments now, please share them! We're looking to do better. I've sent out the hackmd that has the summary of PDs said, feel free to add your thoughts there.

TC: If you're able to get that to us before the next Council meeting, it might let people who want to hear it come hear and listen in.

Tyler: I'm interested in participating in that conversation. How can I participate?

TC: I was about to propose adding a category of council advisers private chat and I'd nominate Tyler there.

Jack: Can this just be public?

TC: I think most of it could be public but we need to look at the specifics. Also depends on how much the Foundation wants to share preliminary thoughts.

Lori: That may be a Bec question.

Niko: I do think regardless of where the conversation happens, having advisors is a good idea. 

James: If it's an unelected group, then we have a private group of people who have elevated voice.

Jack: I imagine there would be more people other than Tyler interested. Maybe make it project-private space rather than fully public?

(the meeting ended here)

## Topics we didn't get to

Nominated:

* "Discussion: Updating and Formalizing Council Expections for Project Director Communication" [leadership-council#230](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/230)
* "How to spend GSoC 2025 money" [leadership-council#232](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/232)
* "Discuss Resident Project Maintainer idea" [leadership-council#233](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/233)
    * Mara: related: https://rustnl.org/resources/Rust-Maintainers-Fund.pdf
* "Proposal: Require all project team members to have Zulip IDs" [leadership-council#228](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/228)
* "Discussing "P[roject Representative" needs" leadership-council#226](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/226)
* "Add Graydon Hoare to the Rust website" [leadership-council#231](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/231)
* "Consider linking to the community discord from rust-lang.org" [leadership-council#219](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/219)
* "Contributor Survey" [leadership-council#222](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/222)
* "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" [leadership-council#41](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41)
* "Establish team charters" [leadership-council#44](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44)
* "Explicit team membership term durations" [leadership-council#175](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/175)
* "Review of All Hands 2025" [leadership-council#177](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/177)
* "Minor Editorial Proposal for Upcoming Release Notes" [leadership-council#203](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/203)

## P-high issues

* "Review and organize overall project team structure" [leadership-council#33](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33)

## Issues that need a council decision

* "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" [leadership-council#24](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24)

## Active issues

* "Document the council's internal decision making process" [leadership-council#31](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31)
* "Find homes for launching pad teams" [leadership-council#118](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118)

## Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo

* "Allow messages from observers during meetings" [leadership-council#110](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110)
* "rust-foundation-project-director.md: use more clear language" [leadership-council#215](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/215)
* "Add alumni policy" [leadership-council#218](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/218)

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
