# Council meeting 2025-07-04

## Attendance

- Council members: Josh Stone, Mara, Mark, James Munns, Eric Huss, TC
- Observers: Tomas Sedovic

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Tomas Sedovic

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

*everyone approves*

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

## Nominated issues

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated, A-program-management

TC: If you look at the Inside Rust blog, there's an extensive update for June:

https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2025/06/30/program-management-update-2025-06/

TC: Tomas, anything you'd highlight?

Tomas: There are several things I've been doing.  I've been taking minutes on every call, which has helped to make sure the minutes are kept and are consistent across all teams.  I've talked with the build-std people.  That's moving along nicely.  I've opened many PRs for adding missed links and calendar entries.  Generally I'm operating from the perspective of being there for the teams.  Working on cleaning up "broken windows" and "leaving things better than I found them".  I've been following up when that needs to happen after a meeting.

Mara: Enjoying it?

Tomas: Yes.  It's less glamorous work, but I've enjoyed helping out the people on teams.

### "Review of All Hands 2025" leadership-council#177

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/177
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: Might be good to carve out the All Hands goals update and turn it into a separate blog post.

### "Discuss process for RustConf tickets for Project members" leadership-council#190

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/190
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC: We have an ask from Gracie here. There are 50 discounted tickets available for $425 for Project members (down from $525 for normal individual tickets). How do we want to go about letting people know about those? How do we want to prioritize them? Santiago brought up a question to me ahead of the meeting, which is how do we see this interacting with travel grants?

Josh Stone: The numbers on the effective discount makes me think we should prioritize getting them to individuals rather than corporations.

Mara: I was about to say the same thing. The individual tickets were already much cheeper. $425 seems rather a lot. Maybe we could do more discount for the individual ond no discount for the corporations?

Josh Stone: I don't know we would have 50 people who would have bought an individual ticket.

Mara: Wouldn't make any difference. Someone from Google or Microsoft if they got a discount, would that make any difference?

Josh Stone: For Google/Microsoft no but other corporations maybe.

Mara: The way it was written seemed like the corporate tickets had greater discount.

Josh Stone: I'm not sure how to do it logistically, but it could be self-filtering. "If a corporation pays for you, don't apply for the discount".

Mara: That's what we did.

TC: Gracie asked us whether sending an email to `all@` with this offer, on a first-come first-served basis, made sense to us, or whether we'd prefer to review applications for this.

Mark: I'm open to an `all@` email. If someone is reaching out for a travel grant, it seems like an obvious place to say "this discount also exists".

TC: We'll reply to Gracie that we're OK with the email to `all@` (noting our preference for people with corporate sponsorship to not apply), and we'll mention how we might want to mention this discount in requests for travel grants.

### "All-Hands 2026!" leadership-council#192

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/192
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

Mara: I have a proposal: we should do the next All Hands next year at RustWeek again. The same format -- easiest for everyone involved. But we need to reserve the venues pretty soon. We have a reservation for the week of 18th May (we need to commit by the next week). Conf Tue+Wed (one day Rust Project track for the Project members) and three full days of All Hands (in contrast to this year's where one day was for the 10 year celebration). At the same venue again.

Mara: I checked the finances of RustNL. The bank has 150k EUR. We expect for RustWeek to have a lot of sponsors so we expect to be able to use these funds for the All Hands. We may have to be careful about travel sponsorship. So if we're fine with this, we can commit to this and get the money later.

TC: To confirm, the ask is for us to bless All Hands 2026 where RustNL will start making commitments to it, but we from the Project side are not making any financial commitments at this time.

Mara: Yes. We don't want to make commitments and then six months from now decide it'll be in London. Financially, I'd really like the Rust Foundation to pay the same amount as this year, and I would like us to work towards that.

Mark: I'm in favor of this. I was happy with RustWeek as it was.

TC: For my part that sounds great too. Given the timeline it seems extremely unlikely we'll be running an All Hands anywhere else. Where it was seems like a great place to do it again. Especially since doing it there has such a great organizer (Mara). So if she's happy to do it again, I think it's totally fine for us at this point to say that we're not going to compete with an All Hands in 2026 somewhere else.

Eric: Do we have a sense, if the Foundation were not able to pay for travel expenses, how would that affect people coming in?

Mara: I think we'd be able to do it but we'd need to be careful about how we manage travel. I think it would be unlikely that the Foundation had no money. This year they spent 100k for the event itself and 100k for travel.

TC: Process-wise, let's start an FCP sayng we're agreenig to do an All Hands in 2026 as proposed here.

Eric: Can we also advertise a little bit on Zulip?

Mara: As soon as it's approved, I want to do a "save the date" blog post.

Eric: I mean before the decision is finalized so people can voice any concerns.

Mara: Yeah, sure.

### "Discuss 2025-07-08 Foundation updates" leadership-council#191

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/191
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

We discussed the materials provided ahead of the 2025-07-08 Foundation board meeting.

### "Discuss Rust Society proposal" leadership-council#159

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/159
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

James: I think we should go for it. Next steps: figure out any thumbs up we need or an FCP. We'd go start hunting down folks to start the Rust Society team Launching pad. The go/nogo would be to find at least three folks, set down a charter, what we're expecting for groups that would be part of the society chapter. Goals, Code of Conduct etc. We'd hope to have some recognized chapters -- people who have good feedback to set down those kinds of expectations, criteria. Groups we can invite to future All Hands.

James: I hope we'd start by the end of Q3. Q4 starting to move to a domain working group, moving off the Launching pad. By the end of this year anyone who hasn't responded archive them. Then recharter the team. Remove the sections from the launching pad, clarify who's a project member and who's not. Q1 next year open enrollment of Society chapters -- anyone who wants to join can say "we're a group".

James: Any particular hate/love/not-interested this idea?

Mark: Do we feel that it makes sense to sign-off on the full list of steps? Or is there a middle point where the 3-4 people come back with a charter before we officially say that they can form chapters?

James: I want to lay out the whole plan so that's not a surprise. And if we need to change it it's clear it changed. But I'd be happy FCP this is the current plan, but have an approval later on. Happy to keep multiple gates in there.

Josh: I'm wondering about the people who are in the Launching pad currently. We haven't had any of this communicated to the Launching pad people. I wouldn't know whether I was in or out if I weren't on the Council.

James: I believe I've pinged all the leads of all of the Launching pad groups. But I haven't communicated this plan. First stage is: once we've got the thumbs up, I definitely want to re-ping the teams. I've been trying to get a concrete plan in instead of pinging them every time there was a change. That's something we could do during the FCP period.

Josh: I'd also echo this in the larger broadcast -- e.g. in the Launching Pad zulip channel.

James: Can do.

TC: In terms of process, I recommend filing a separate Leadership Council issue proposing the creation of the team along with its charter. In that charter you can talk about the areas it's covering, what its initial goals are, etc. You can put the decision gates and other caveats in there. That can be FCPed and then the team PR can be opened.

Mark: My understanding was you were asking us for some initial approval before doing this.

James: I need to make sure the Council is going to be happy before I go looking for people. I could just write the charter but I want to have the group be there when we do this.

TC: We can say, now, if James comes back with the proposal for the charter, is there anyone here who would file a concern or not check the box?

Eric: For the charter it would probably need to say what the criteria is for accepting new chapters. I'm unsure whether that'd be our decision or your decision.

James: Example criteria: landing page, CoC that's enforced, regular check-in. The [Report 002](https://github.com/jamesmunns/rust-society/blob/main/reports/pdf/2025-04-04.pdf) has this but I'm happy to inline that.

TC: These are the sorts of details we could iterate on but isn't going to stop moving this forward. To get you unblocked we only need to make sure that no one has a significant fundamental objection to this.

Eric: I'm enthusiastic about this assuming you can find people to help you.

TC: James, I think you have what you need. Go ahead.

James: I'll put a note this has been discussed and next steps.

Mark: Since Oli isn't here, maybe you want to follow-up with him as well.

James: Good call, I'll ping Oli.

TC: Thank you James for pulling this together.

### "Planning and resolution for 2026 Project Priorities budget" leadership-council#183

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/183
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, finished-final-comment-period, disposition-merge, to-announce, I-council-nominated, A-budget

### "Travel budget for 2025" leadership-council#182

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/182
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated, A-budget

### "Explicit team membership term durations" leadership-council#175

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/175
- **Labels:** question, I-council-nominated

### "who decides on questions about the stability process?" leadership-council#180

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/180
- **Labels:** question, S-triage, I-council-nominated

### "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" leadership-council#41

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41
- **Labels:** S-active, A-foundation, P-high, I-council-nominated

### "Establish team charters" leadership-council#44

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure, I-council-nominated

## P-high issues

### "Review and organize overall project team structure" leadership-council#33

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33
- **Labels:** S-active, P-high, A-project-structure

## Issues that need a council decision

### "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" leadership-council#24

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-legal

## Active issues

### "Document the council's internal decision making process" leadership-council#31

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31
- **Labels:** S-active

### "Find homes for launching pad teams" leadership-council#118

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118
- **Labels:** S-active, A-teams, A-project-structure

## Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo

### "Allow messages from observers during meetings" leadership-council#110

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

### Council survey

Mark: Have a look at:

https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2025/06/30/2025-leadership-council-survey/

TC: Thanks to you and Eric Huss for putting that together on our behalf.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
