# Council meeting 2025-06-06

## Attendance

- Council members: TC, Mark Rousskov, Oli, James Munns, Eric Huss, Mara, Josh Stone
- Observers: Tomas Sedovic

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Tomas Sedovic

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: Hearing support and no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

## Nominated issues

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC: We did a lot of work with help from Joel. Did around 20 interviews. Picked Tomas Sedovic. We talked about some of the key themes. This week's objective: get him introduced to everyone, getting him plugged into the teams. He's picked things up, took minutes on most meetings -- helping people to focus on the meetings. For teams where the minutes weren't complete we now have complete minutes. There were things where teams communicated things, needed to follow-up with people outside -- he's helped out there, talked to people, set up the call between Libs-API and people in the community. Scheduling, re-scheduling when someone got sick.

TC: Talked about some big teams: improving communication outwardly, putting out blog posts, "fix the broken windows", looking at better managing things such as the security compliance, setting up meetings. One item like that on the agenda today: the compiler-ops position. Asked for any update (there wasn't any post). Pointed Tomas at it and him and Antonio got a [blog post](https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2025/06/05/a-glance-at-the-team-compiler-operations/) out in a couple of days.

Josh Stone: Was there any wide-scale announcement about Tomas's arrival and his availability to work on the various projects.

TC: Not yet, it's on my mind. We'll do an announcement with the first inside-rust post about the Program Management program.

TC: On the very first call this week (the Cargo meeting) that people already had plenty of good ideas of things they wanted to see. I was immediately reassured.


### "Discuss Rust Society proposal" leadership-council#159

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/159
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

* Follow up notes from RustWeek: https://github.com/jamesmunns/rust-society/issues/1

James Munns: Gave a (recorded) chat at Rust Week (will publish later including slides). No one immediately said we'd like to set up a chapter right now. Feedback: making sure we're clear on what the point of this is. We want to figure out what kind of pipelines that are happening outside of the projects are to help connect them to the Project teams when they need something from there. In embedded: being able to feed that work into the foundation -- e.g. a Silicon Vendor group.

James: Point of contention: we're moving people who were in the rust project outside. What about inviting people to the All Hands etc. This wasn't originally addressed. Introducing a concept of "recognised chapters" went down better. Threshold to set up a society should be very low: these folks have been around a long time, compiler people know them and can reach out to them -- and vice versa. These are good groups to say we recognise them, nominate them in a launching pad to run the society, etc. I'll keep going with that until someone tells me it's problematic to do so.

James: The limited factor in progress is James's availability. No hard blockers other than someone to push the ball forward.


### "Planning for 2026 budget" leadership-council#183

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/183
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

Eric Huss: Not a lot to brief. We're running out of funds from the donation from Microsoft. Want to ask around. Is anyone here familiar with how the MS funding came about? It might be a good idea to trumpet how good this money was for us so we can get some Foundation support.

Mark: can try to dig up old minutes. But loose recollection: it was Microsoft-initiated. They had money they decided to give to us.

Mark: if we go to the Foundation, it'd be great to have an order-of-magnitude idea of how much money is needed to keep the lights on vs. other stuff.

James: Concurs on the idea of having a blog that describes what we used it for and how helpful it was. Mention it was one-time and bring up what we could do with additional money and maybe sketch out what different amounts would give us.

Josh: I don't remember any details or whether I was even around this. I do agree that we should prepare some details on. When we go ask for money I hope we will lean on the Foundation.

TC: I agree with all of that. The procedural point I'd make here is: we need to initiate an ongoing dialog with the Foundation about how to continue this budget. The council on behalf of the project is interested in this budget continuing and it would be in our interest to FCP this resolution: whereas the council of the Rust project found the budget to be useful and allocated it to projects that were useful and that they want to continue this budget.

TC: Need to put a bit of a pressure and clarify this isn't just Eric or TC raising the point. Make it clear that this is the position of the Rust project and that we consider it the priority. It can then be added to the board call, include in the Rust Project update.

James: That sounds super reasonable. We should loop-in Project Directors on the FCP. Do we have a date around when we'll run out of the budget at the current burn rate? To be able to put a timeline on it to make it more concrete. Having the Foundation drive this, thank Microsoft -- this will be useful for marketing.

TC: Agreed. A part of the dialogue is for us to understand what we can do to help the Foundation here. It doesn't necessarily have to be another Microsoft putting the money in (even though that would be ideal). Most of the operating budget comes from membership. They have a proposal to bump the Platinum fee -- that should bring in revenue. So there's also just the question of how the normal budget of the Foundation is allocated and make it clear that they should consider this possibility. If nobody asks, there are always other ways to spend the money.

James: Now we're in the season where we have budget. A lot of budget discussions start around October. But there's often a silent cycle between October and February (??). Might be good to know when these cycles happen. Beck would know better in those circles.

Eric: Does anyone remember when Paul's leaving?
Eric looks up async: it is end of September.

TC: This month or the next.

Eric: Would be great to have any final parting wisdom from Paul on the topic.

TC: The money will likely run out by the end of 2025. We're doing this on a yearly cycle. Doesn't mean we'll be down to zero, but the allocation of the money has already been made. The free budget is effectively at 0 at the end of the year.

Mara: To add some sense of urgency: for the All Hands we got feedback that the overall majority of attendees want this every year. If we want to make that happen, we need to have the budget for that this year.

TC: Planning to do a project update in the next board meeting. Be great if you (Mara) could write something about the All Hands update so we can bring it up there.

Eric: (is reluctant to ask) Is there some way to make the All Hands a little cheaper? It was more expensive than I expected.

Mara: We had the celebration this year so it was more expensive and we could cut down on food a little. But we've spent 100k on travel grants and saving on that would be tricky.

Eric: Next steps: we're going to FCP on this issue to make the position that we're going to ask the Foundation. Get the directors in the loop, get the conversation with Paul.

TC: Let's make sure we'll invite Paul to the next council meeting. Let's renew our invitation of the Directors to the council meeting. Eric and I will write the proposal for this FCP. On the back of that FCP we should start a thread on "council-foundation-private".

TC: The Foundation is hiring someone for the Director of Outreach. They'll communicate with us. The Foundation has made an offer to someone.


### "Compiler-ops contract renewal" leadership-council#181

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/181
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: Wesley and David reached out that contract for apiraino is coming up this month. We allocated $30k USD to the position. We may have some surplus. Apiraino is charging us around $25k USD, that'll leave us with 5k. We could extend this for another month, but they're interested in renewing this for another six months.

TC: There's a blog post now: https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2025/06/05/a-glance-at-the-team-compiler-operations/

TC: Talks about what the role is, accomplishments etc. Eric: you have the best sense of the budget, what do you see our best option here?

Eric: There's about $10k left out of the reserve. Question is how much we want to keep around for travel budget. We don't have a lot of budget for the RustConf -- depends on how much we'll spend on that.

Eric: We have about $67k currently unreserved. With travel we have another $20k unspent. Then we need to decide if we want to spend more out of the 67k.

Mark: Didn't we say that that each individual should use it roughly once a year.

Eric: I don't remember.

Mark: Most people have been to the All Hands. We could say we wouldn't support international travel or something similar. I would be inclined to prioritize extending the contract. This contract feels more valuable than some extra people going to RustConf.

TC: I want to second what Mark said. This is a highly valuable project and it's a very efficient spend in terms of what it's costing us and what we're getting out of it. By the end of the month, we'd have $5k left.

Eric: The limit is $2k per person per year -- so not limited per event but per year.

TC: The proposal: allocate another $25k to allocate the extension of compiler-ops for another six months. That would put us through the end of the year.

The council is in agreement.


### "Travel budget for 2025" leadership-council#182

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/182
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

Eric: We had 75k last year, 75k this year. We've spend 130k out of that -- only $20k left. Do we want to extend that to RustConf? Or say this is it for 2025? Do we want to hold back for 2026? We have 67k that free -- some of that we'll spend for compiler-ops. Do we want to keep the rest ($42k) in reserve for the next year?

Eric: The Rust Week and All Hands combined was about $116k.

Eric: Do we leave it capped at $20k. Rust Conf would be a bit limited.

Josh: Do we feel like we need to decide on Rust Conf now? Seems preemptive to decide it now.

Eric: The guidance I'd like to give to Paul is: we'll keep to our budget. And if we need more, we'd go ask them. But like to be proactive.

Mark: It would be valuable to decide how much we'll allocate before we communicate which countries etc. we'd support. So deciding early could be valuable. Worth getting stats from Paul to know how much we spent on RustConf last year.

Mara: Also don't forget about EuroRust in October -- last year people also used funds for that.

Mark: Someone should get the number from Paul. And investigate how much we'd say if we say we won't pay for international travel.

Josh: I worry about the dividing line on international travel -- should we say intercontinental travel instead?

Mark: Yes, intercontinental.

TC: I don't want us to be too skittish about spending our budget or trying to stretch it out. We've got to operate in our normal way to provide the value we're providing to our people. And we need to put pressure on getting the budget we need. We need to be economical, but also keep doing what we do.

Eric: I'm not hearing a clear decision in terms of what we want to do. I can talk with Paul and confirm what we're thinking, ask what he thinks and try to figure out what our expectations may be for the end of the year.

TC: This sounds reasonable. If we can get Paul to the meeting next time, that's a topic we can discuss there and he can be prepared with the numbers we need.


### "Explicit team membership term durations" leadership-council#175

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/175
- **Labels:** question, I-council-nominated

### "who decides on questions about the stability process?" leadership-council#180

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/180
- **Labels:** question, S-triage, I-council-nominated

### "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" leadership-council#41

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41
- **Labels:** S-active, A-foundation, P-high, I-council-nominated

### "Establish team charters" leadership-council#44

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure, I-council-nominated

## P-high issues

### "Review and organize overall project team structure" leadership-council#33

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33
- **Labels:** S-active, P-high, A-project-structure

## Issues that need a council decision

### "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" leadership-council#24

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-legal

## Active issues

### "Document the council's internal decision making process" leadership-council#31

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31
- **Labels:** S-active

### "Find homes for launching pad teams" leadership-council#118

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118
- **Labels:** S-active, A-teams, A-project-structure

## Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo

### "Allow messages from observers during meetings" leadership-council#110

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
