# Council meeting 2025-03-14

## Attendance

- Council members: Eric Huss, James Munns, TC, Mara Bos, oli, Eric Holk, Mark
- Observers: Josh Stone

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Mark

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: Seeing thumbs up and no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

## Nominated issues

### "Update on 2025Q1 council elections" leadership-council#160

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/160
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC: The compiler team has recently confirmed Josh Stone as the selection for their council seat.  I'm sad that Eric Holk will be stepping down, but I can't think of a better choice than Josh Stone to replace him, and I'm thrilled he'll be joining us.

TC: What do we know about the process on the other two seats?

Eric Huss: The dev-tools and launching pad teams are likely to select same people (though it is not yet finalized), and I will be updating permissions next week.

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC: We put out the first advertisement for the program management role hire, and we've been collecting applications.  We're still reviewing them.  Nothing has stood out to us yet, and we'll be advertising this further starting with some postings on Zulip and a post on the Rust blog.

TC: In prior discussions, on which we came to an agreement, I had framed the budget ask as for calendar year 2025.  For logistical reasons that have become more obvious, I'd like us to amend our understanding and agreement here that the 200k USD budget allocation in support of this program is not tied to calendar year 2025 but may extend beyond it.

Eric Holk: Makes sense to me; a one year contract seems right.  Do we know how many applications have come in?

Eric Huss: ~17 applications so far.

oli: We should definitely advertise more; the posting seems hard to find right now.

TC: Agreed, we're planning to make it more widely known shortly.  It went out to the first place a bit earlier than it otherwise might have because that place, HN's "who's hiring?" thread, only happens once a month, and we needed that to start collecting an initial batch of applications to improve our calibration.

Eric Huss: On the question of extending this beyond the calendar year, I had assumed this was already true. For the compiler-ops position, we had seemed to do the same thing.

Eric Holk: As I understand, the $200k number for this year had been adjusted downward from the annualized ask since this was starting part-way into the year. Is that still the right number, or if we're decoupling this from the calendar year, should it be higher?

TC: That's correct.  We had a 240k USD amount planned overall.  If you "twist my arm", that would indeed be my ask.  There's I think a lot of value upside in the program management investment here, and this would help with extending this work across what I expect will be short-term budget challenges so that we can prove it out and work on attracting further financial support.

Mark: Have no objections to 240k. Only slight hesitation is the potential lack of funds for future years, i.e., to renew the contract.

TC: Agreed.  The idea here is that we're planning to work to stretch out the duration over which we invest these funds as far as reasonably possible.  In particular, the hope is that we can "finesse" the capacity and the duration to carry this over until better fundraising conditions are available, while still producing the kind of evidence needed to make the case for those asks for further funds.  We are, e.g. revising the exact strategy here.  We'll probably just make one hire initially where we would have otherwise made two, and then reevaluate a bit down the road whether we'd like to make a second one.

Eric Holk: To clarify, is Mark saying we don't have $240k, and so couldn't hire one person for that?

TC: No, we have $240k today, but we don't have $480k. Probably, if we can help it, we won't be spending $240k on one person, but will be extending this out.

James Munns: We should be up front with whoever we hire on what our ability/plans are for future years.

TC: Agreed, and that's part of why we're doing this on contract.

TC: OK, the concrete ask here is a budget allocation of $240k with no calendar expiration.  The other details of the ask remain the same as the prior agreement.  Since this is money, I'm going to go around the room and get position affirmation.

Mark, Eric Huss, Oli, Mara, James Munns, Eric Holk, TC: Yes, agreed.

James: Can we schedule something in 6 months for a general budget review?

TC: Yes, I will own figuring out a way to make that happen.

TC: OK, we've amended the terms of the budget allocation as above.

### "Discuss handling of RustConf Program Committee" leadership-council#163

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/163
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: There are two things for us to discuss here.  One is making the selection, and two is the question of whether there are any long-term structures within the Project we should have around RustConf, now that it's under our umbrella -- with the Foundation -- or for conferences generally?

James: Setting up a team seems plausible, with some kind of ops doc.

Mark: It's not entirely clear to me that RustConf is under the Project's umbrella.  I'm not sure we have the bandwidth for it.  Traditionally the ask of us has been for e.g. a keynote.  So a team doesn't necessarily feel wrong to me, but maybe it's too much.

Mara: Not sure about a team. RustConf organizers are asking us for help, but this shouldn't be treated particularly differently from other conferences making asks.

TC: That this conference is being run by the Foundation does seem to make it a bit special.  The framing I'd use is that the Foundation is running it on our behalf, in the same way that the Foundation does everything it does on our behalf.

TC: When I think of what we probably want out of this, in terms of showcasing Rust in the ways that we'd prefer it showcased at a conference that is so tightly tied to us, it seems to me that if there were enough people interested in organizing it, then the Project would get a better outcome from being more involved. But this does depend on there being a set of people who care and are willing to spend time on it.

TC: To the point about other conferences, I agree that this goes beyond RustConf. Any team for this could be a broader resource to any conference organizers who are interested in working with us, e.g. to better align the content of the conference with our Project interests.

oli: Individual decisions in different conferences sounds like a good thing to me. I would prefer to avoid "central control" or vibes of that, having a team seems to move us in that direction.

Mara: +1 - a team provides too much structure, and making something specific to RustConf makes RustConf even more special, which i'd really like to avoid. I don't think the Project should be the full set of members of the RustConf committee, we can advice the Foundation to include community members too.

Eric Holk: Conference organizers invite individuals to be on a program committee. I would reply to their request as-is -- if we have a volunteer from the council, then let's provide one. If we don't then we don't. I would separate out the conversation around broader structural changes.

oli: Is anyone on the council going?

Eric Holk: I don't think there's a prerequisite of attending if you're on the committee. Nice, but not required.

TC: Do we have any volunteers?

TC: Hearing silence, do we have anyone tepidly interested, or do we know of anyone who might be that we might select?

Eric Huss: I seem to recall Carol and/or Nell being involved last year.

Josh Stone: I could potentially be interested, and probably will be going to conference.

TC: Thanks to Josh Stone for volunteering.  I'll second that nomination, and propose that if it's without objection, that we select and confirm Josh Stone as our representative on the program commitee.

TC: Hearing support and no objections, our selection is Josh Stone.

### "[launching-pad] Find a home for the Docker Team" leadership-council#124

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/124
- **Labels:** A-teams, I-council-nominated

Eric Huss: Do we have any objection to transferring the Docker team to T-infra, and what's the process for transferring things out of the launching pad generally?

James: The process so far has been that if there is mutual agreement between the team to be transferred (docker) and target team (infra), it means we just do it.

Mark: Infra is lukewarm happy to take it, if people want that to happen.  There's little direct connection with what infra or release do.  The docker team is more user-facing like rustup.  It's not tied into our infrastructure or release process exactly.  Release owns the mechanics of the release process, the release notes, the blog post, etc.  Infra owns the underlying infrastructure for it.  Docker owns the docker hub bits.  I don't think there's a ton of work involved there.

Eric Holk: +1 to process from James. Seems reasonable to not involve council. Dev-tools might be a better fit given the more user-facing nature, but no strong feeling here.

TC: Agreed about the process bits.  If there's mutual agreement, it can just go forward.

TC: It actually surprises me that this isn't more tied into our release process. This seems like just another "spin" of our release. We put out tarballs and whatnot, of course. An OCI image is just kind of a weirdly formatted tarball. Josh, since you have experience there, and I know Fedora puts out container images with its releases, do you know how Fedora handles this in terms of release process?

Josh: On the Rust side, historically the two teams, docker and release/infra, have not really interacted. Docker is primarily a downstream consumer of release artifacts. By contrast, Fedora puts out official artifacts as part of their normal release process, so it is more tied in.

Mark: There are propriety platforms like docker hub and github actions where it's plausible that the project could put out artifacts as part of our release.  But I kind of like these having some distance from us to make them less official.  On the other hand, people do expect to find these artifacts, so maybe it is something we should own.

Josh: Fedora also hosts their own container registry. Dockerhub then mirrors the Fedora containers, roughly speaking.

TC: Producing the container image itself feels like a "release" function, whereas the actual publication to dockerhub seems separate.

Mark: On the core question here, we could go forward with this, or leave it where it is.

Josh: Infra could be a better home, if we looked at hosting our own registry rather than just publishing to dockerhub.

Mark: Yes, agreed.

TC: No particular council question here seems critical, so our consensus is to defer to the source and target teams on this.

### "Discuss Rust Society proposal" leadership-council#159

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/159
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

James Munns: I'm still working on the action items here from the last meeting.  I'm hoping to come back soon with something for us.

### "[launching-pad] Find a home for the Security Response WG" leadership-council#141

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/141
- **Labels:** A-teams, I-council-nominated

James Munns: This is in the same category as the above.

### "GPU working group" leadership-council#155

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/155
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: The GPU situation is interesting as we have before us two currently separate and distinct groups of people.  One group is composed of Manuel Drehwald and his collaborates who have been working within the Project on project goals, supported by a lang initiatives and an compiler MCP, for adding autodiff and GPU offloading to Rust.

TC: Then separately, there's the group that's interested in reviving Rust-CUDA and the related things, and is looking for a broader mandate that would overlap with the first group.

TC: One step here would be to encourage communication and perhaps integration of these efforts.

James Munns: There are indeed at least groups for (1) compiler changes, (2) outreach to companies (e.g., Nvidia, AMD, etc.), and (3) the community of end users and the foundational libraries.

James Munns: Figuring out how to tie these in seems important.

TC: On the matter of building bridges with industry partners, we have some overlap with our next agenda item about improving communication with the Foundation. Facilitating interactions with industry partners is something that the Foundation does, e.g. with the Safety-Critical Consortium, and is something that fits naturally with other activities of the Foundation such as attracting corporate members.

TC: However, we haven't really received meaningful engagement on that question, as it pertains to these GPU partners, and it seems that we need to think about the best way to follow up usefully. It'd be helpful for us to know, e.g., whether there are things already in the works here or not, and whether the staff at the Foundation sees the opportunity here in the same way that we do.

James Munns: The project directors seem like the closest tie-in. Should we be nominating this into board meeting discussion? Seems like we're not pushing too much in the absence of something urgent.

Mark: Part of the difficulty that we've had here is that Foundation is bad at volunteering to do things like this.  It may be in part due to fear of doing it wrong.  Bringing it up with the board is something we might want to do if we think it's important.

James: If the council is interested, asking the Foundation via the board seems like a good idea.

TC: Before we ask for action, the first step is to just ask for engagement. We want to hear their analysis and their own plans or activities of which we may not be aware.

TC: This is something that it would serve us to think about more broadly.  It's a tool we have that we perhaps underutilize.  We can simply ask the staff at the Foundation to come and report to us about the activities or plans of the Foundation on some matter of our interest, and it's worth thinking through the places where that would help us to make better and more informed decisions.  It's on my mind, and maybe I'll have a proposal here later.

(Meeting ended here.)

### "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" leadership-council#41

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41
- **Labels:** S-active, A-foundation, P-high, I-council-nominated

### "Establish team charters" leadership-council#44

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure, I-council-nominated

## P-high issues

### "Review and organize overall project team structure" leadership-council#33

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33
- **Labels:** S-active, P-high, A-project-structure

## Issues that need a council decision

### "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" leadership-council#24

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-legal

## Active issues

### "Document the council's internal decision making process" leadership-council#31

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31
- **Labels:** S-active

### "Find homes for launching pad teams" leadership-council#118

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118
- **Labels:** S-active, A-teams, A-project-structure

## Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo

### "Allow messages from observers during meetings" leadership-council#110

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council

### "Add meeting minutes for 2025-02-28" leadership-council#162

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/162

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

TC: Hearing none, we have no clarifications.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
