# Council meeting 2025-05-23

## Attendance

- Council members: TC, Mark, Josh Stone, Mara, Oli, Eric Huss
- Observers: Jakub Beranek

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Mark

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: Hearing no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

## Nominated issues

### "Update on changes to mods team" leadership-council#178

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/178
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated


oli: Rotating technetos for Steffahn. Goal is to write up a proposal and review with candidates and Council in coming weeks. Soliciting input from folks early on any ongoing friction.

oli: want to find a strategy for banning obvious spammers/trolls/... being much more lightweight, with information flowing back to mods asynchronously.

Eric Huss: Banning people - is that just GitHub? Or other platforms?

oli: We try to find people across all platforms if possible. internals/Zulip/GitHub.

oli: At some point talking about shutting down the Discord since it's no longer inhabited by official people in great volume.

TC: +1 for shutting it down.

TC: Maybe we could charter a `mods-contributors` subteam.  This is a pattern that we use elsewhere.  Then the people on that team could help with the "protect the Project from spammers" sort of things.

oli: Need to be careful on messaging and communication for that.

TC: May also be worth considering granting ban permissions broadly (e.g., team leads).

oli: People usually reaching out are not the ones in leadership positions, at least today.


### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC: Eric Huss and I have been talking, preparing to onboard Tomas Sedovic. Expect more updates in future meetings.

### "Review of All Hands 2025" leadership-council#177

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/177
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

Mara: Organizationally -- everything was pretty amazing. Nothing major went wrong throughout the week. Lots of experimental things -- all of those had positive uptake from what we've heard so far.

Mara: Didn't participate in the technical sessions (busy with organizing).

oli: Conversations for various teams (e.g. types) were quite positive, including updates on topics across the team, and talking to other entities (e.g., external orgs at the unconference). Lots of useful inputs and topics pushed/moved forward with folks present.

Mark: My feeling is broadly similar to Oli's.  There were a lot of good conversations; no decisions, but good discussions.  Many of those hadn't happened for months or years, so it was good to have the opportunity and to meet people I hadn't met.  There were many conversations that wouldn't have happened without the event.

Mara: 10 years party... also went well? Photographs will be available to us at some point.

Mara: Feedback overall was super positive. C++ folks (who have similar typed events more regularly) also had positive feedback.

Mara: Do we want to make this yearly? Organizationally, easiest is yearly. If in the Netherlands, happy to contribute.

Mara: Another thing we need feedback on is -- is 2 days enough?

Mara: $100k on event, ~$80-90k on travel. Could cut costs if needed, could stick with the current rough strategy.

TC: Have we had any inputs on sponsorship?

Mara: For Rust Week, we received a lot of sponsors, but they mostly only wanted to sponsor the public part.  So the best way is probably going to be having the Foundation collect money for it. RustNL fundraising for it directly doesn't seem right.

Josh: Foundation driving it seems right.

Mara: #meeting notes topic in the all hands channel, as one way to gather inputs. Some folks dialed in remotely.

Josh: We should spread the knowledge of that meeting notes stream.

Mark: One thought I had during and after the event is that it might be interesting to make the meeting notes thing ongoing, rather than just during the event.  I found it interesting to see other team's notes.  These often get buried.  Having these on some central stream may be something for us to consider.

Mara: Any thoughts on where and when?

Mark: That seems a good idea.  It seems reasonable to have it in the same place, at least for the next year.  Probably the next step is to go to the Foundation and to see their thoughts on funding it.  It seems it was valuable enough.  I'd be inclined to keep experimenting here.

Eric Huss: Council budget doesn't have much left, so would need to be Foundation helped.

Mara: Ryan Levick(?) is helping with questionare to help put data backing the decision to fund this on a more ongoing basis.

TC: This raises another angle -- conversations recently were mostly pessimistic, would be good to revisit that and make it a more recurring thing. Seeing how we can help make the Council budget be recurring would be useful.

Mara: The more we help (data, anecdotes) the easier the funding conversations with sponsors are going to go. Having statistics will be useful to drive the discussions.

TC: +1

Mara: Currently reserved week of May 18th for both venues (at least for RustWeek, if not necessarily for the project).

### "Substitute for 2025-06-10 Foundation board meeting" leadership-council#176

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/176
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: I'd be interested in attending and am available.

Josh: Are you interested in being an ongoing director, or just one off?

TC: Not sure yet.

Josh: Not interested in ongoing, but happy to stand in if no one else is interested.

Mark: I talked with a number of folks.  I haven't heard back from any people positively.

TC: We're likely to have 3 open slots at the next election.

Eric Huss: Commitment wise -- is it just 2 hours a month?

TC: ~3 meetings a month (pre-board meeting, Foundation board, monthly sync with Foundation staff).

Eric Huss: ~2 hours/week is the estimate in our role description. Maybe a bit pessimistic?

Josh: Being somewhat more high touch in the Project (zulip etc) helps too, which takes a bunch of -- perhaps more passive -- time too.

Eric Huss: in terms of substitutes - we have several technically active folks - should we be trying to entice these folks to join in the more governance work?

### "Explicit team membership term durations" leadership-council#175

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/175
- **Labels:** question, I-council-nominated

Mara: I seem to recall a discussion a few months ago about some periodic email to check for team membership. My recollection is the reaction was positive.

Eric Huss: Don't quite recall that, but some amount of technical challenges with realizing that plan in practice.

Mara: All-hands required repeated prodding -- this seems broadly similar.

Eric Huss: I want to understand the problem this is trying to solve.  I think that jyn wanted to know who was still active, but I want to know why.

Mara: It's quite useful to have current-ish information... some people were surprised to know they are on a team still.

TC: Pushing this responsibility to team leads (recursively) seems like perhaps an easier to implement technical strategy. For healthy teams this doesn't seem particularly helpful, and is noisy. For those teams that are inactive driving this bottom up seems reasonable.

Mara: For me at least, having some periodic reminder of what teams a person is on - regardless of whether that's a "click to agree" email.

Mark: One thing that comes to mind is that people don't know things like "how I find out who my LC rep is" or "how do I talk with the Foundation".  This was behind why I put the onboarding document.  It might be valuable to send out a reminder about the teams that someone is on along with this sort of general information.

TC: Triagebot could tell people what teams they're on demand or periodically.

Mara: Yearly all hands requires yearly invitations, so that could be a way to combine the work into something we have to do anyway. Lots of manual work here (Zulip, poking people out of band, etc.) so good to combine the efforts.

TC: Sounds appealing.

### "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" leadership-council#41

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41
- **Labels:** S-active, A-foundation, P-high, I-council-nominated

### "Establish team charters" leadership-council#44

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure, I-council-nominated

### "Discuss Rust Society proposal" leadership-council#159

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/159
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

## P-high issues

### "Review and organize overall project team structure" leadership-council#33

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33
- **Labels:** S-active, P-high, A-project-structure

## Issues that need a council decision

### "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" leadership-council#24

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-legal

## Active issues

### "Document the council's internal decision making process" leadership-council#31

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31
- **Labels:** S-active

### "Find homes for launching pad teams" leadership-council#118

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118
- **Labels:** S-active, A-teams, A-project-structure

## Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo

### "Allow messages from observers during meetings" leadership-council#110

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
