# Council meeting 2025-05-09

## Attendance

- Council members: Mark, TC, James Munns, Eric Huss, Josh Stone, Mara, oli
- Observers: Urgau

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Mark

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: Hearing approvals and no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

### Final update ahead of All Hands 2025

Mara: Everything is on track and I've posted updates in various all-hands channels on Zulip.

Mara: Tyler is owning scheduling within individual rooms. Various sessions are getting scheduled across the available rooms.

Mara: We'll be holding the celebration (with capacity for 350 people) with 120 people from the Project. Tickets are getting sold for remaining capacity. Pietro will be kicking off the Rust release on stage. Various activities are planned throughout the event.

TC: We earlier made a delegation to you to decide on travel grants for non-Project members. How did this end up working out, how much uptake did we get, were there any good/bad things to call out, etc.?

Mara: Several folks were nominated by project members. We used up the capacity (~150 slots) for the all hands fully. Overall it worked well.

TC: Any patterns to note?

Mara: Half the people came from C++, related to the interop work. The rest are new contributors or non-project prominent community members.

TC: Do you happen to know what we spent overall on travel grants for the All Hands?

Mara: I'm not sure. Paul was hopefully keeping track. We had reserved $100k.

Mara: Do we want any press release etc.?

Oli: I'd go for just the blog post; it'll get picked up anyway. There's no need for us to pick any other specific outlets.

Mara: Any feedback, conclusions, etc. that we are looking for from the all hands?

Oli: Mods have been thinking about a status update / invitation to come talk to them.

Mara: Any questions we want to ask folks since we have the opportunity?

Mark: I was going to suggest, along similar lines, soliciting input on how it went, what was good and bad and so forth.  After the event, after we have some idea of how things went, we could make that more specific, e.g. was it too short, or too long, etc.?

Mara: We'll probably want to make this a more regular event.  So I'm curious what kind of information we'd need to feel comfortable making a decision on that.

Mark: One thing that does come to mind -- and I don't know if there's a good way to collect this data -- is some facility for finding out whether it was useful to have everyone there.  Maybe it'd be better to have smaller events that are closer to people, that might be less expensive.

### Foundation Three Year Plan

https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/335408-foundation/topic/Rust.20Foundation.202026-2028.20Strategy.20Consultation

Eric Huss: Seems like the Foundation has things doable with more funding, but seems like doing anything different requires more funding.

Eric Huss: Right now it's just a questionnaire, not a proposed plan.

Josh Stone: Might be worth re-promoting the post more broadly, since `#foundation` might get missed. Maybe cc `#general`; Inside Rust might be too wide.

Eric Huss: Sounds like they want feedback from everybody, so Inside Rust doesn't necessarily seem too wide.

Mark: Maybe we can suggest to Bec to email `all@`, or to do it ourselves.  That'd be another easy thing to do.  I'll leave a note asking about this.

TC: Speaking generally about what the Foundation might want to prioritize as we look ahead, with the help of Eric Holk, we solicited and received feedback from a member of the Linux Foundation's board of directors about what, in that person's experience, has worked to make the Linux Foundation successful, and what we might want to consider in making our own Foundation more effective.  The main output of that was confirmation of the effectiveness of creating and nurturing consortiums and initiatives, like the ones for C/C++ interop and safety critical, as companies often find it easier to make donations to these kind of specific efforts.  The Linux Foundation has seemingly had a lot of success in raising money in this way.  I'm interesting in exploring how we might better double down on these kind of efforts in order to create a more "target rich" environment for attracting Foundation membership and for soliciting other financial support.

James: Safety Critical took a lot of noise to get going. Do they have feedback on how we can start seeding such initiatives? How do we hunt down the communities where this applies?

TC: We didn't receive specific feedback on that.  However, from the Project side, I think we often get a lot of indicators of what would be valuable.  People from companies often appear in team meetings.  There are some obvious initiative candidates outstanding now, e.g. the work touching the GPU / ML accelerator space.  Digging further into these known themes is likely to uncover value.

### Santiago's PD seat

TC: Santiago is looking for us to fill in for his project director seat from June-September, until the next election.  We can use this opportunity to build experience with more people in working with the Foundation.

TC: They canceled the meeting this month, due to the All Hands, so the next board meeting is in early June.  We can pick an alternate in the next meeting.

Mark: It might be advantageous to talk with people at the All Hands.

Josh Stone: It'd be good to talk with the existing PDs to know about their interest in continuing.

TC: I'll reach out to Scott and Jakob.  OK, the plan is that we'll put out feelers generally for PD candidates during the All Hands, and we'll discuss in the next council meeting the substitute for the June board meeting.

## Nominated issues

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC: The person we picked, whom we talked about last time, will be joining at beginning of June. We're working on preparing to onboard the person.

TC: Financially, since we hit our targeted rate, we are looking at ~2.5 year runway given the funds already allocated. The key priority will of course be to demonstrate value so as to attract further and continued funding, and it's helpful that we have a meaningful runway in order to do that.

TC: More broadly than the success of the program management program, what I'm hoping for us to show here is the effectivenes of the council allocating funds, as I'm hopeful we can attract more funding for the council to allocate.  If we could do more in terms of allocating significant blocks of funds to teams, that would add a lot of value.

### "Discuss Rust Society proposal" leadership-council#159

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/159
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

James: Talked to Ernest a little. No significant updates yet.

### "Who needs to review and sign-off of the main blog post?" leadership-council#173

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/173
- **Labels:** question, I-council-nominated

Eric Huss: We should write up a policy for this.

Mark: We do have 80% of a policy.  I don't think it says who can approve.  Adding a few lines to say we're sticking with any team lead approval would be easy.

https://forge.rust-lang.org/platforms/blogs.html

Josh Stone: The one caveat here is when we're speaking in the Project voice.  Generally I trust the leads to know when that's the case or not.

Eric Huss: Brainstorming here, maybe "on behalf of X team" would be "council member for that team approves".  Often these PRs languish a bit, and things seem to work better when it's clear who should approve what.

Mark: As a concrete proposal, combining what Eric is saying with the policy today, we could say that anyone on the leadership council or a team lead can approve, but the responsible person to approve would be your LC rep.  And maybe we could set up triagebot to ping the right person.

TC: Sounds right.  In writing this down, we could add in what Josh STone said, that people should be careful about seeming to speak in the Project voice, and to loop in their LC rep in that case.

Mark: I'm planning to own the necessary updates here (at some point).

### "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" leadership-council#41

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41
- **Labels:** S-active, A-foundation, P-high, I-council-nominated

### "Establish team charters" leadership-council#44

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure, I-council-nominated

## P-high issues

### "Review and organize overall project team structure" leadership-council#33

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33
- **Labels:** S-active, P-high, A-project-structure

## Issues that need a council decision

### "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" leadership-council#24

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-legal

## Active issues

### "Document the council's internal decision making process" leadership-council#31

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31
- **Labels:** S-active

### "Find homes for launching pad teams" leadership-council#118

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118
- **Labels:** S-active, A-teams, A-project-structure

## Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo

### "Allow messages from observers during meetings" leadership-council#110

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council

### "Add meeting minutes for 2025-04-11" leadership-council#172

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/172

### "Add meeting minutes for 2025-04-25" leadership-council#174

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/174

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

TC: Hearing none, there are no clarifications.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
