# Council meeting 2025-04-25

## Attendance

- Council members: Josh Stone, Mark, Mara, TC, Eric Huss, Oli, James Munns
- Observers: None.

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Mark, Oli

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: Hearing approvals and no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

### Expatriation of experimental projects

- **Link** https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/392734-council/topic/Crate.20Ownership.20Policy.20Clarification/with/513882552

Eric Huss: Ed Page is asking about our policy for expatriating crates for experimental projects, and in particular whether such expatriations need to follow our process.

TC: Do we know the crates he's asking about specifically here?

Eric Huss: No.

Mark: My impression is that this is asking in general about experimental crates (not necessarily directly libtest) in preparation around libtest refactoring/reworking.

Eric Huss: Our typical policy is an RFC for moving stuff out of the org, even if it starts out in the experimental state.

Mara: Is it just a repository or a crate?

Eric Huss: Crate.

Mark: Right now none of this exists, but will be in a prolonged experimental state (during which it would get used). The eventual state will probably be some externally-owned crates and maybe an internally-owned libtest-equivalent.

TC: If the intention is to give the crates a "pretty" name now so as to encourage people to use them, then it doesn't sound like it is experimental. If that's not the intention, then they could give this an obviously experimental name now and rename it later. That would side step our policy and the concerns that lead to it since it would just be a fork rather than a transfer of a name in which others might have built trust.

oli: +1 to marking clearly as experimental.

Eric Huss: Agreed.

TC: It sounds like we have consensus on this guidance. If forking and renaming later works for them, then that's an option. Otherwise this should follow our process.

James: Do we have a list of crates we own?

Mara: We have a list of crates we owned (for the "crate-maintainers" team creation). That group maintains a bunch of these crates, including some crates with compiler team ownership.

James: Should that crate maintainers team own policy here?

Eric: There's not a specific team, but there is a policy, and it sounds like our recommendation is that expatriation always requires an RFC (experimental or not). Here's a list from 2021 <https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1aeBWFrQA6_HHUD2kF85zHMNWs6TxFWtORJAOCXSm4-g/edit?gid=0#gid=0>. This is maybe a more accurate list <https://crates.io/users/rust-lang-owner>.

## Nominated issues

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC: Over the last many weeks, we've reviewed dozens of applications, and have conducted nearly 20 interviews. We conducted follow-up interviews with 5 candidates, and we identified 3 finalists who all would have been great, and who all hit the rate target we were trying to hit. We've now selected the person we're hiring for this, the person has accepted, and we're in the process of contracting.

Given notice periods and whatnot, the person we've hired will be starting in around two months, or possibly less.

As an aside, the collaboration with the Foundation -- with Joel in particular -- worked out really well here. Joel was great. He did exactly what I would have expected the Foundation to do in support of the Project. He handled the administrativia, scheduling coordination, and formal communication all while collaborating to ensure these bits were done in the manner that we would expect. He coordinated with other staff at the Foundation. He joined me on all the interviews and asked good questions. Aided by his own technical and management background, his intuitions on the candidates matched mine and we ended up roughly in the same place on each candidate, which was reassuring to us both. We made a good team.

In doing this, I think we learned some lessons about how to do future hiring for the Project effectively, and I'm hopeful that we'll be able to do more of this and to put these lessons to use.

More broadly, I think this has been a model of good Project / Foundation collaboration, and I'm hopeful we can apply those lessons to other areas as well.

As we think about Paul's retirement and how to fill in the gap there, this experience has reinforced my view about Joel being a good partner for the Project and being an appealing person to take on more of these responsibilities. What has to happen for project grants, e.g., bears many similarities to the process that we just completed.

Oli: We're all looking forward to working with the new person.

### "Discuss Rust Society proposal" leadership-council#159

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/159
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

James: No current update. I am having offline discussions before/during Rust Week, and am looking for any names that should be definite folks to talk to there.

### "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" leadership-council#41

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41
- **Labels:** S-active, A-foundation, P-high, I-council-nominated

TC: So I have some thoughts on this. For us to improve our interaction with the Foundation, we need to know more, on an ongoing basis, about what's happening at the Foundation. In working closely with the Foundation on the program management hiring and on the adoption of the FLS as part of spec work, and in joining the Foundation board call in December, it's become more apparent to me that things that might be important to us are often happening but that on the council side we get no reporting of these things. It's easy for us then to be surprised or miss opportunities where we could have helped the Foundation or the Foundation could have helped us.

TC: Rather than being blocked on trying to make big changes to improve this, I started thinking about what the smallest changes we could make would be that would help here. The Foundation staff already puts together a monthly report about its activities in the form of the materials presented on the monthly board call. I'd propose that we work out a process for receiving these materials, while of course treating them with due discretion.

Mark: How do we see this fitting into the Project Director role? How is feedback being routed? Those slides are not very information dense; getting questions answered requires active follow-up. It's a reasonable starting point, but needs discussion, and also all slides are board confidential.

Oli: Would it be better if there was a condensed summary for us from folks who participate with those meetings?

TC: Yes, I had thought about that also, but that asks for additional work. The board materials already exist. They are high level, but that's better than nothing, and it gives us a good basis on which to ask the right questions or to fill in needed context. We have invited the PDs to this meeting, but they mostly aren't able to join or participate here. That leaves us with a limited connection to what's happening at the Foundation.

TC: Without that connection, I think it's hard for us to live up to providing the kind of effective oversight we should be providing. We have to choose project directors, e.g., but without having any idea what's going on, or what each project director is doing, this becomes bit of a black box to us, and it ends up taking a lot of work so as to not make these choices entirely in the dark, which I noticed when coordinating our last election of project directors.

James: It is interesting. It might be worth getting those slides. Maybe we could discuss this async with the PDs and see what they think.

TC: There's a second thought I have here. On the Foundation board calls, there are a number of people who aren't directors. Much of the Foundation staff attends. So I wonder what the appetite would be for creating a policy where council members could attend as observers. We do each have legal standing as individual members of the Foundation.

Josh: There were some moments on calls that were confidential, with some folks asked to leave, but not always. I do worry that this would read as "not trusting" the project directors, and I'm not sure it'd feel good to be on receiving end. +1 to receiving the slides.

TC: Yes, I agree that's a concern. My expectation would still be that the median number of council members on any Foundation call would be zero. But I could see it being valuable to have more eyes on the meeting when something important is known to be happening. We invite the PDs to our meetings, and we don't feel threatened by that.

Mara: The argument that "they can also join the meetings" isn't symmetrical; we pick their positions, while they don't
pick ours. +1 to keeping Foundation and council separate, though it would be good for them to proactively invite people to join the call when relevant.

TC: Agreed that such invitations should be made, and that's actually part of what's on my mind here. E.g., in the program management work, there's a lot of overlap between what we're doing on the Project side and what's interesting to the Foundation, and what's happening on the Foundation side that's of interest to us. If we can both stay informed about the other, I think there's a lot of opportunity there. But without a blanket policy that we're acceptable in that meeting, I don't think these invites will ever in practice be made. The hurdle will just be too high.

James: Would it make sense to gate approval behind the PDs making the invitation?

TC: That seems OK to me, but in practice it seems the same thing, as I'd expect the PDs to always extend this invitation upon our asking.

As I say, in working more closely with the Foundation, one starts to realize that we're maybe not doing a great job of staying aware of things or providing the oversight of these things people might expect from us. I'm looking around to find small things we could do to improve upon this, and so I'm curious what ideas people might have.

James: Maybe we could ask the PDs what they think? Maybe they have ideas themselves?

Mara: Maybe we're too focussed on board meetings? The Foundation exists outside of board meetings. Can we find a way to keep in touch in some other way? E.g. TC with hiring, Mara with all-hands, etc. Syncing doesn't have to be in board meetings.

TC: Yes, and there's also that call between the staff and the PDs that follows each board meeting. I'm sure there must be some value to those and information must be exchanged, as they keep doing them, but I've never seen any output from these meetings come back to us to other places in the Project.

TC: Planning and hiring for the program management role has made me think a lot about how we can manage that effectively, and so it's made me think about how we manage things more effectively in general. As volunteers, we're limited in the time we can put in. But it's still our job to make sure efforts are being directed in the way that's most useful for the Project, and often we are the only experts on what that is and can't usefully delegate it. So we have to think about how we can achieve our ends without overloading ourselves, and of course that naturally precludes us from micromanagement. Maybe I'll write something up about this, but I wanted to first talk it through with those here.

ehuss: In short term, let's start a thread with the PDs to talk about this. I like the idea to get the board docs from Foundation as they provide nice summary. Maybe asking questions is a good launch point.

TC: Yes, it sounds like we're all on board with that and are in support of finding a way to get these documents. I'll start that thread.

ehuss: Soliciting ideas from PDs is important in this initial ask.

TC: Yes, I'll describe the context there so they understand the problem we're trying to solve.

James: We select the PDs and expect them to have oversight over the Foundation. Maybe it's possible that we need to make the nature of our expectations more clear and encode the details (e.g. in the charter?).

https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/bfb9e3dabdd23ec7e0061d2c0dec5ab863038761/roles/rust-foundation-project-director.md

TC: That responsibility is really on all of us -- not just the PDs and the council, but even the teams. There are a lot of aspects to this oversight. It's a big job, and to make it work we all need to do our part.

As one recent example of that, here's a story. This comes from spec work. We're in the process of adopting the FLS. Back last year, there was discussion of what needed to happen legally, with the copyright, to ensure the Project had clear rights to distribute this under our normal licenses. There were known things that needed to be cleaned up. For whatever reason, the discussed agreements didn't end up getting signed between the Foundation and these parties. I ended up catching this somewhat accidentally. Then I took the view that it was the responsibility of the spec team to ensure that this was done to our standards, and I pushed for these agreements to happen. They did, and afterward, everyone agreed that this was for the best and made everyone feel more comfortable.

It would have been incorrect, in my view, for the spec team to say, "oh, well, the legalities are a Foundation matter and we shouldn't ask". The team needs to provide sufficient oversight to make sure that the interests of the Project are protected within that team's domain.

So this responsibility falls on all of us.

James: We caught this one, but how do we make sure this will be caught in the future?

TC: It's all about visibility. We need to know what we don't know.

### "Establish team charters" leadership-council#44

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure, I-council-nominated

## P-high issues

### "Review and organize overall project team structure" leadership-council#33

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33
- **Labels:** S-active, P-high, A-project-structure

## Issues that need a council decision

### "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" leadership-council#24

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-legal

## Active issues

### "Document the council's internal decision making process" leadership-council#31

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31
- **Labels:** S-active

### "Find homes for launching pad teams" leadership-council#118

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118
- **Labels:** S-active, A-teams, A-project-structure

## Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo

### "Allow messages from observers during meetings" leadership-council#110

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

Eric: For following up on the expatriation, I'll follow up with Ed Page there, yes?

TC: Sounds right.

TC: OK, no other clarifications.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
