# Council meeting 2025-03-28

## Attendance

- Council members: TC, Mark, James Munns, Oli, Josh Stone, Eric Huss, Mara Bos
- Observers: None.

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: James

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: Hearing affirmations and no objections, we'll consider the agenda approved.

## Announcements or custom items

None.

## Nominated issues

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC: Since the last meeting, we announced the program manager role we're hiring more widely.  We put up a [post](https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2025/03/18/hiring-for-program-management.html) on Inside Rust and shared that out on `r/rust`, and we advertised it on Zulip in `#general` and in the channels for the edition and goals.  We have dozens of candidates now; we've conducted some interviews, and we're lining up more.  So there's much going on.

### "Update on 2025Q1 council elections" leadership-council#160

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/160
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC: We put up a [post](https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2025/03/26/leadership-council-repr-selection.html) announcing the choices of each team.  Probably we're done for this round and we can close the issue, if that sounds right, Eric?

Eric Huss: Yes, good to close

TC: Congratulations to the new and returning members on being selected by your teams.

### "Discuss Rust Society proposal" leadership-council#159

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/159
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

James: I've written up a distillation of the last two council meeting and the points that were raised there.  If there are no objections to those bullet points, I've added them to the tracking issue here.  I'm hoping to figure out what some incremental buy-in points are.  The report should be coming soon.

TC: Who is Ernest mentioned here?

James: He works with Rust London.  I've worked with him before, and I wanted to get his feedback.  He's worked with the Foundation and with Rust Kenya.

TC: Regarding the bullet point about talking with the Foundation, it's always good to talk with them of course, and while I'm sure they'd have interesting things to say about logistics where I'd expect them to help us with whatever we decide here, I'd also expect them to be looking to us for cues here about what we want to do.

Josh Stone: We could loop in the project directors also.

James: Makes sense.

Eric: Where's the right place to have discussion about this?

James: It's in `#council/Domain groups`.

### "Discuss the vision doc project group 2025" leadership-council#165

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/165
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: We approved a project goal for this vision document.  When we approved this project goal, we probably did not intend to approve anything more than our priorities and the related demands on our time and attention.  This has therefore come back to us now that a pseudo top-level project group for this is being requested.  The purpose of this project group is to follow through on the goal that we approved.  Sound right Eric?

Eric Huss: Seems correct.  This is an issue in the process.  There was a PR, but it was unclear what the next steps were or
who would handle this.  Originally, the actual charter document was unreachable and returning 403.  The full set of materials was only made available for review recently.

TC: It seems that the concrete thing for us to do here is to review the ask for the project group and then to signal our approval.  Recently for pseudo top-level teams, we've been doing that via FCP.  However, in those cases, we were making a specific delegation, and it's less clear that's needed here.  What do we think?  Do we want to FCP this?

Mark R: I'm inclined to approve the PR, but we should review our process on this.  It probably would not be great to block this for another 2 weeks.

TC: Agreed.

Eric Huss: I'm inclined to move forward ASAP.  They just need a repo to do their work in.  I did want to bring up the
question: "how do we track the subteam relationship"?  Niko originally wanted to make this a subteam of leadership council, but that's not something we really do.  On the other hand, if we put it in the launching pad, they don't have structure there either.  We have no written rules for how we add teams to the launching pad.

Josh Stone: Are we delegating anything that needs actual council oversight, or just making a repo?

TC: It's a bit more than just a repo.  This team is going to be reaching out and interviewing people to talk about a vision for Rust, and then is going to come back with a document suggesting that vision.  That document will of course need its own approval from us, or from other teams -- however we decide to do that.  But still, in approving this, we're buying off on these activities, which will certainly seem official, and that we'll be expecting to deal with this work product when it comes back to us.

Josh Stone: We would still have a chance to review before it was fully accepted.

Mark R: Agreed there is a bit more than just the repo.  There is some official weight to the name of the team and its activities. I don't think we'd suceed in distancing ourselves if it were to suggest something with which we'd disagree, though I'm not really worried about that happening.  That said, I'm comfortable with the shape of the strategy.  Similarly, for me, it wasn't clear when adopting the project goal that we were approving the team.

Eric Huss: Regarding the timeline, they want to do some work now and have discussions at RustWeek, then do an RFC in second half
of the year.  It's a little unclear whether this is a one year (for 2025) vision doc, or a 3-5 year vision document.

TC: As I understand, the doc is written "as of 2025", but it's covering some years beyond that.

Mara: See https://rustweek.org/talks/niko/.  This is a talk that covers some of the details of Niko's plans.  Some details are available in the talk description:

> Over the last few months the Rust Vision Doc project group has been conducting interviews of folks using Rust, Rust project maintainers, and global Rust interest groups. Come and hear about the data weâ€™ve gathered thus far and help us figure out the next steps in the process!

TC: OK, here's a proposal.  We'll kick off an FCP merge on this issue stating that we're accepting the project group and that we're waiving the FCP period.  What do we think?

James: I haven't read it, but if there are no objections, I'm happy to pass.

Eric Huss: There's some unclarity for me about what to expect here exactly.  How should I ask about this?

TC: This is a good reason to do the FCP then.  We can kick off the proposed FCP, and then ask our questions on that thread.  That way, we'll all see the answers and the context will be in the right place.

Eric Huss: We used to have the roadmap process.  It never went well, and this seems similar.  I don't want to stop it, but I'm also unsure what it will actually accomplish.

TC: OK.  I've proposed an FCP to accept the project group and to waive our FCP period.  When comfortable, go ahead and check your boxes so this can move forward.

### "Marketing: Rust logo on RISC-V Landscape page?" leadership-council#164

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/164
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, A-communication, I-council-nominated

TC: Back in 2023, someone asked about adding our logo to a page on the RISC-V website.  Eric has now nominated it.  Probably we'd want to give the Foundation some indication of our appetite for this.  Sound right Eric?

Eric Huss: Sounds right.  I'm not sure if this is going to move anywhere, but it was filed for the core team, and it's now been moved to our lap.

TC: Looking at it now, the relevant RISC-V page has a lot of logos, e.g. for the Apache Foundation and many other similar things.  Maybe ours would go in "infra" with the Go project.

Eric Huss: It's interesting that GCC and LLVM are in "design tools".

Josh Stone: Is this an endorsement, or just, "yes Rust supports RISC-V".  If the latter, probably doesn't need our blessing, but maybe it does for trademark reasons.

Mark: The question in 2023 was from a relatively unrelated person.  It's not clear anyone is asking now, and I'm not sure we should spend time on this.

TC: OK.  Proposal to get this off of our desk.  We signal that we have no objection to this, as long as the Foundation likewise has no objection, but we aren't intending ourselves to take any actions to make this happen.

Eric Huss: The README states it's just to show things that support RISC-V; it doesn't seem to really be an endorsement.

TC: Seeing signals of agreement with the proposal and no objections, the proposal is accepted.

### "[launching-pad] Find a home for the Security Response WG" leadership-council#141

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/141
- **Labels:** A-teams, I-council-nominated

TC: What do we want to do on this, given the ongoing work in related areas?

James: I'll unnominate and mark this issue as dependent on rechartering the launching pad team.  I'll take an action item to file an issue for that and nominate it.

### "GPU working group" leadership-council#155

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/155
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: This one is similar, but there are some differences.

James: Similarly I'll unnominate.  For this one, we can treat it as blocked on the Rust Society proposal:

<https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/159>

### "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" leadership-council#41

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41
- **Labels:** S-active, A-foundation, P-high, I-council-nominated

TC: This is a long-standing item, of course.  One thing that comes to mind here is what we could to in terms of asking for better reporting from the Foundation, and relevant to this issue, documenting our expectations there may be the best way to do that.

Eric Huss: I had volunteered to write down the status quo.  This issue is too open-ended and vague, and so closing it would be good.  That would make room for improving on that separately.  I'll try to get to this soon.

TC: It's not urgent.  As I well known, you're working on many other important things that also need doing.  As important as this is, it'll still be here for us later.

### "Establish team charters" leadership-council#44

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44
- **Labels:** S-active, A-project-structure, I-council-nominated

TC: This is probably similar to the last one.

Eric Huss: I was working on this two weeks ago, so active progress being made.  The idea is to create a basic template.  The important thing is documenting the responsibilities.  I'm planning to RFC this.  If we approve it, I'll work with the teams to follow through.

James: Would it make sense for the charters to live in the `team` repo?

Eric: My intention is to put the links to the charters in the team repo.  There will be one source of truth and other things will just pull it from there.

## P-high issues

TC: We've made it through our nominated items.  While we have other issues below, it probably just makes sense to end here.

### "Review and organize overall project team structure" leadership-council#33

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33
- **Labels:** S-active, P-high, A-project-structure

## Issues that need a council decision

### "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" leadership-council#24

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24
- **Labels:** S-needs-decision, A-legal

## Active issues

### "Document the council's internal decision making process" leadership-council#31

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31
- **Labels:** S-active

### "Find homes for launching pad teams" leadership-council#118

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118
- **Labels:** S-active, A-teams, A-project-structure

## Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo

### "Allow messages from observers during meetings" leadership-council#110

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council

### "Add meeting minutes for 2025-03-14" leadership-council#166

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/166

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

TC: Hearing none, there are no clarifications.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
