# Council meeting 2025-11-14

## Attendance

- Council members: TC, Oli, James Munns, Eric Huss, Jakub Beranek, Josh Stone
- Regrets: Mara
- Guests: Rebecca Rumbul, Abi Broom, Joel Marcey, Lori
- Project directors: David Wood, Jack Huey, Niko
- Observers:

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Tomas Sedovic

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: The priority of this meeting is discussing the Project Priorities budget 2026.  That's the top item on the agenda.  If we have any remaining time, since we are joined by the staff, I'd suggest hearing from Bec on the draft of the three year strategy for the Foundation.

oli: Only if Bec is okay with sharing the draft.

TC: Bec if we have time are you okay with sharing the draft?

Bec: Yes.

TC: Hearing support and no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Plan for order of meeting

TC: If it's without objection, here's how I plan to structure facilitation of the meeting to maximize what we all get out of it.  First, if Bec, Abi, or Lori have a presentation or introductory statement for us, I'll invite them to present that uninterrupted.

Next, rather than taking hands as they come, I plan on going around the room, starting with the council and then the PDs, with each person having a few minutes to ask a series of clarifying questions (and receive those answers) or make whatever statements that person wants to make.  You can of course yield your time at any point.  I'll make sure we get to everyone (which means watching the clock closely and, as gently as possible, moving things along).  If we still have time after making one loop, depending on how much time is left, we may either take another loop or take hands at that point.

(The motivation is as follows: 1) for this topic in particular, such a round-robin feels likely to produce a more focused discussion and better understanding, and 2) when the discussion centers on information one person or subset is presenting, taking hands "pop-up" can feel a bit like being pelted from all angles, and this will help to minimize that.)

TC: Hearing support and no objections, the plan for order of the meeting is adopted.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

## Nominated issues

### "Discuss Project Priorities budget 2026 -- post-on-site discussion with Foundation" leadership-council#241

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/241
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

Abi: (opens the "Budgeting!" slides)

Abi: First topic: Restricted and Unrestricted funding. 

Restricted funds: the fund comes with a restriction the donor imposed. If we don't do that, we wouldn't get the money. If we stop doing it, there's typically a claw-back clause where the donor can get the money back.

Unrestricted funding: no restrictions. Rare but happens. Nonprofits typically do it from income (charging membershp)

Restricted funding for the Rust Foundation: 30-50%

When we talk about budgeting, we talk about the unrestricted portion.

I work out how much income the Foundation can count on and how much things are going to cost. We need to keep them in balance. I'm the person who says "no". And then help figure out what to do with the money we have.

Strategic priorities: we need to meet restricted funding commitments, maintain our current activities and staffing levels. We have funding bid from Alpha-Omega for security. It won't cover everything. Security is a really important initiative. So to get it to fund the people we need, we'll use the unrestricted budget to cover the rest.

Next, funding the Rust Project is important. We tasked Lori with this and we produced the request.

Abi: There's not enough money to give you what you asked for ($1,110,000 USD).

You're getting the $60k USD for Program management you asked for and you're additional $590k USD ($650k USD total) for 2026.

Based on your github discussion, I suggest:

* $100k for travel budget
* $60k for PM (Tomas)
* $60k to Extend PM through December
* $60k for compiler ops
* $370k (the rest) I leave up to you

Foundation will bring in extra 50k for travel grant

What do you want to do with $370,000 USD?

TC: Thank you Abi. I want to check with Bec. Anything you want to add?

Bec: I think Abi said what we needed.

TC: I greatly appreciate Abi for putting the time and her fantastic presentation.

TC: Let's go around and check in with everyone. Your questions and remarks.

TC: We'll start with James Munns.

James: Thank you for the overview Abi. It looks like the long pole in our checkboxes is maintainer support. How is the Rust Maintainers fund going with the Foundation? How would that look on the Foundation side? If that part is large enough, then this isn't necessarily so critical. What's the current conversation with the maintainers fund looking like?

Bec: I don't have any hard figures yet. The fundraising is going on. I'm getting positive vibes, but we've only started doing it in the last week or so. We're doing this at the right time of year when people are getting rid of their underspends. I'll keep you updated.

James: If we've got 370k remaining, I could see that going to the Rust maintainers fund if the Foundation process is slow. Otherwise experiments.

TC: Eric Huss.

Eric: We're rolling in the previous amount of money from Microsoft into this?

Abi: That's correct. We'll bring about 300k from that budget plus more from the unspent budget.

Eric: In the past, communicating how much money was spent. We didn't have insight into the information -- how much gets spent.

Abi: The Project directors receive financial report of what gets spent against the budget. They should be able to report it to you.

TC: Next: Jakub.

Jakub: Thank you for the presentation. We added the maintainer support before we started the discussion about the maintainer fund. So this budget looks quite nice.

Jakub: Is what was presented here set in stone? Can that money be reused or affected?

Abi: It's not going to get smaller. If more companies bring in cash we can add to it maybe.

TC: Next is Josh Stone

Josh: Similar questions about the maintainers fund and how it fits with the foundation budget. What kind of commitments do you need from us at this time? How do we decide and when for the remaining $370,000?

Abi: If we can have numbers by December, that would be great. But I can break it down nominally and that can then be flexible.

Josh: Our PM line is not filled, if the funds are not going to be as great, we might want to de-prioritize that.

TC: Oli.

Oli: The extra $50k travel grants, if it's not used up for RustConf, can we use it for conferences after RustConf?

Abi: I haven't thought about this but it seems that we should be able to use it for conferences after RustConf too.

Oli: Once the maintainer fund starts ramping up, will that go through the council as an extra limited support fund or will that be a completely separate system we should figure how to synchronise together?

Lori: The Leadership Council has the money to figure out how you want to support the maintainer. It's a good opportunity to experiment. The Foundation is going to have to work differently.

Oli: Is this the same restricted/unrestricted situation?

Lori: We haven't had anyone direct funds to a specific project yet. But that will hopefully come up along the way. I want to integrate this into the Project health tracking.

TC: Next up is me.

TC: Everyone covered the important points and questions I would raise.  I yield my time.

TC: Next are the PDs. David Wood.

David: I agree with what Josh and James said. Thanks Abi for the presentation.

Jack: I like there's two separate parts for the maintainer support. We should experiment and this is a good opportunity to do that. It seems we have some guaranteed money for that and some that we are possibly getting from companies. That's great to see.

Jack: Abi, this is a really awesome presentation and you did a good job with this. I liked the beginning: "this is how the Foundation has to manage finances". There will be different Council members in the future and it would be great if they could learn about this. The general Project and the general public might be interested too. We should figure out how to disseminate this knowledge.

TC: Next is Niko.

Niko: I yield my time.

TC: Let's do another round.

James Munns: My gut thought was if the approval has to go through the LC, does it make sense to have two separate budgets? +1 for capturing this knowledge

Eric: Nothing from me, thanks.

Jakub: If we wanted to use the money for the maintainer support, we could still leverage the Foundation if we wanted to contract someone?

Abi: Definitely, if you want to give out funds, we'll work with you on the paperwork.

Josh: It's possible we'll see what the Foundation does with that funding and see that we won't need any separate use and bring it there.

Oli: I yield my time.

TC: I yield my time.

David: I yield my time.

Jack: Nothing else from me.

Niko: Same.

TC: Is there something else anyone wants to raise on this topic?

TC: Abi, what are your takeaways from hearing from the LC and PDs?

Abi: It's always useful hearing from you. Nothing is set in stone other than you know you have at least this amount of money.

Bec: Echoing what Abi said, we want to make sure that teh Project is able to allocate funding to its own priorities. We want to help you do that. Please make use of Abi's help. If there's anything you want from us, we're here to support you. Tell us what you need and we'll do our best to make it happen.

TC: I appreciate Abi for your description in particular how the rationale and description for what we're trying to do and how that plays into the process of raising funds and budgeting the coming years.

### "Discuss 2025-11-11 Foundation updates" leadership-council#238

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/238
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: Bec you and your staff put a lot of work to the three year strategy for the Foundation. You put together a five-point sketch for that. Do you want to talk through that, how you see that affecting the work of the Project and the Foundation.

Bec: I didn't realise the strategy was going to be on the agenda. I'll share the document that we're planing to share with the Project.

Bec: Vision/Mission: we want Rust to be global, secure, efficient, reliable. We want Rust to be a universally considered safe, secure, stable language. We want to give it support. We need it grow or we'll lose support. We need governments and companies to contribute. We need to be recognised as a transparent proactive organisation that's doing the work.

Bec: We came up with core strategic pillars: Stable infrastructure, Adoption & innovation, embedding users, maximising membership, empowering the community.

Stable infrastructure: the infra that underpins Rust development is secure, reliable and scalable. By end of 2028, the Foundation has ensured that the critical infra is reliable, low risk and sustainably managed by a supported community.

Oli: Is the idea that the annual goals are going to be more granular and more specific?

Bec: Absolutely. We'll have much more granular plans for Q1, Q2,... We have to report this to our restricted funders as well. Joel prepares a report for AlphaOmega etc. We tend not to put the granular details into the headline strategy. They'll feel pretty out of date within the 6-12 months.  We're leaving some wiggle room for us here. E.g. the last time we did our strategy, 6 months later ChatGPT came out and the world changed.

Bec: next, Sustainable maintenance: we're working with the Rust Project as much as we can to provide the resources that the Project needs. By 2028 we hope we've established durable model to sustain the people maintaining Rust. Ideally we want to have more Platinum members on board. That would help us fund this form the core Foundation budget. I want to have a big enough budget as the Foundation to support people out of our core budget.

Bec: Increasing Adoption and Innovation: adoption and growth is necessary. We've kept an eye on it in the past but we haven't strategically pursued it yet. On the other side of adoption is bringing in more members. More platinum members. We want to make sure those companies are much more embedded and comfortable with how Rust works, with the community, understand how things get done and how they don't get done. Enable back-and-forth, have them understand how to get involved. Different industry vertical: safety critical; finance might get more interested with the C++ interop. We want the innovation too: we want to see the language evolve, more companies innovate.

Bec: We want to maximise membership. The more members we have, more money we have, more money we can spend on good stuff. We're hoping to grow income by at least 10% hopefully even more. We're talking to companies. Provide access to the Foundation to provide guidance to companies that are mystified by how things work in the Rust world.

Bec: Powering the communities: we want to make sure we're providing space for communities across the world, to make sure discrete communities can talk about what they want to talk about. Provide training, ... There's so much good work going on the project that people just don't know unless they're following github and zulip closely.

Bec: We have to keep an eye on ourselves as an organisation. We have to make sure we're solvent, legally compliant, doing exactly what we need to do regarding finance etc. Necessary to be a grow-up organisations. Make sure the staff are experts in their areas. We need to make sure we're taking advantage of grant programs. We want to be a good place to work. I don't want my employees to burn out, rage quit. 

Bec: That's what we'll share with everyone on Monday. Alongside that we'll also going to be sharing the overview of the strategy survey we did a few months back: areas that people said they wanted us to do.

TC: That was great. Let's do a round here.

James: Thanks for sharing.

Eric: I don't have anything specific at this time.

Jakub: Same

Josh: All looking good to me

Oli: It sounds good, we'll need to talk async about details

Jack: nothing for me

Niko: Question for the room, I like getting the extra information from Bec. How do we match this on the Project side? I think we should be setting our 3-year strategy better. In my ideal world, there would be our strategy and the Foundation strategy and have them aligned.

TC: I'd echo what Niko said. Empowering the community would provide a natural avenue with what James is doing with the Rust Society. The other possible synergy would be the content team. There's a lot of ways existing project initiatives would work together. Niko, your point is great. We want to work on that too.

Josh: I think it's worthwhile thing to want. But in the project people have different attitudes, we won't be aligned on everything.

TC: Bec, that was super valuable. Than you very much for going through that.

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

Eric: What are the next steps in the short term? In the next 6 weeks or so?

TC: How does this align with board meeting, how the things are going to be adopted by the board?

Eric: Also what are the expectations of what we can start planning now?

Bec: We're finalising the budget in the next couple of weeks. That will go to the December board meeting (9th December). Once that's approved, we can go forward with confidence on the figures. Lori can continue working on spending the allocation.

Bec: Re strategy, we'll publish it on Monday on the zulip channel. We'll give people opportunity to comment. Then finalise it, send it to the board meeting.

Bec: After the board meeting, we'll hopefully have green light.

TC: I propose taking the "Project focus" question async.

Tomas: We typically publish these minutes. Bec and Abi, is there anything that's not public that we need to leave out?

Bec: All the information is going to be public.

Abi: I'd leave out the non-project budget numbers, everything else is okay to publish.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
