# Council meeting 2026-01-16

## Attendance

- Council members: Eric Huss, TC, Jakub Ber√°nek, James Munns, Josh Stone, Mara Bos, oli
- Observers: David Wood, Jack Huey, Lori Lorusso, Niko Matsakis

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Tomas Sedovic

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: Hearing support and no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

## Nominated issues

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated, A-program-management

TC: Last year we approved additional funds for the program management budget; that allows for the hiring of a second PM. I reached out to the close runner-up last year. The person was still interested. We set up a call. We wanted to let Tomas get a read. Tomas came away with the same read that Joel and I did. The call reminded Joel and I why we liked him to begin with. Smart, an engineer, good Rust background. He has a lot of interest in Rust, the Project, and our processes. An offer went out to him yesterday and I expect he'll accept.

Mara: Were there any women in the pool of candidates from the first round? We have a serious diversity problem and I worry if this keeps going, there won't be any left.

TC: Yes. I'd have to check our records for a number. There was one in particular I remember whom we were hopeful about. We knew people who knew her. It turned out to not a good fit compared to the other candidates. Overall, the pool that came in reflected the general averages across the industry.

Mara: That's not a good sign. Rust's averages do not reflect the rest of the industry. We should see this as a warning bell.

Mara: For the next time, I'd like us to make a plan on how to source more diverse pool. If there's only one woman in the pool, we're doing something wrong here. I'll be happy to help next time.

TC: Your help will be much appreciated.

Jack: Heads-up: I'll propose doing Outreachy.

***

Tomas: I interviewed the second PM. They were a leading candidate from the first round. I liked them, I think they'll do a great job, looking forward to working with them.

Tomas: CPython meetings are ongoing. The most recent one discussed building and linking modules to Python as well as the potential bootstrapping cycles: Rust's bootstrap currently depends on Python -- if Python depends on Rust we have a cycle (and vice versa too). We have things to investigate and people to talk to.

Tomas: Spoke with Joel Marcey about the lack of updates on C++ Interop and Code signing. I brought up the frustration the Project sees from the lack of updates and engagement. Joel had spoken to the authors of both goals and said they'll write an annual report and plan ahead and invited us to look at those. I've reiterated the need for more frequent updates which he said we're right to require that. I'll be meeting with him regularly and will keep checking on this.

Tomas: Project goals: we've got several proposals merged, a few more open and yet more under discussion. I've made some more fixes to the tooling with more to come.

Tomas: All Hands / RustWeek: I believe it would make sense for me to attend All Hands and ideally RustWeek too. If I were to go, I would need the travel reimbursed. I want to ask the Council whether they consider it worth the expense.

Tomas: Heads-up: I have a chronic disease that requires a month-long treatment every two years. I brought it up to TC and Joel while discussing hiring back in May 2025. This will happen sometime in the summer -- I'm aiming for July but it's not really up-to-me. I will be out for that time, thankfully we should have another PM to cover for me. I might be able to respond to emergencies, but overall shouldn't work. Under a regular employment, I'd be on a proper medical leave.

Tomas: No need to worry about me, but it's a long absence and I wanted to flag it early.

TC: As Tomas mentioned, this was something we knew, and it was one consideration on my mind in the discussions we've been having about what's needed to make the program sustainable.

Niko: I think the Project Goals program has been moving more slowly. I've been struggling to motivate myself but I've picked that up in the last couple of days. I'll reach out to continuing goals next.

Lori: Tomas and other folks reached about the Community Grants. Some goals were granted through that. The funds have merged with the Project priority grants. There's about a $140k that's unallocated for this year.

TC: This is a topic later in the agenda. I've also heard similar stories from people.

### Council budget tracking

Eric: heads-up: TC helped with creating a GNU Ledger tracker for our budget tracking. This will help significantly with tracking our spending. The balance summary can be found at:

https://hackmd.io/@rust-leadership-council/ryBmBnFCC#Overall-balance-sheet

Eric: We can add new expenses and it automatically computes everything for us.

Lori: The PDs get a budget every month. I think you have access to the Project Priorities tracker that Abi's created. Are you reconciling this with what she's doing?

TC: We'd like to get the monthly report from the Foundation; the one the PDs get. Seeing just the current state of the spreadsheet is far less helpful. We need records of the month-to-month changes.

Eric: +1.

Lori: The Project Priorities tracker gets updated. Eric has access. I'll talk to Abi, figure out what report the board gets and figure out if there's something she can give you.

TC: The sheet itself is not great -- it updates continuously. What we'd like is a monthly diff that shows what changed every month.

### "Discuss Rust Foundation Maintainers Fund" leadership-council#242

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/242
- **Labels:** A-foundation, I-council-nominated

Jakub: We met yesterday but we didn't get a lot done over the holidays. We plan to meet with team leads and organisations that have maintainer programs to learn.

Jakub: Is everyone okay with me to share the result of the Project Contributor survey with the Project members?

Jack: I'm happy with the data to be shared. I'd be careful with some of the data though because you could glean info that's not private. I'd be careful to not share some things.

Eric: When you say "share the data" does that mean the summary graphs or something else?

Jakub: The summary graphs without the parts marked as being council/foundation only?

TC: Jack, does that help with your concern?

Jack: I'd have to go back and look.

Jakub: I'll prepare the PDF and share it with you privately.

Jack: That's good. We can discuss 1-1 so I can show you what could be used to de-identify people.

Mara: Similar concerns. We also may want to filter out outliers. If we can share the PDF ahead of time, that would be great.

Jakub: Agreed on outliers. I'll share the PDF. But even then, I'd only share it with the Project members in the private channel on Zulip.

Niko: As an exercise, a bunch of us wrote up various ideas on how this might work to survey what people proposed. We discussed Tyler Mandry's one. He was saying that after talking to Bec and others, he thought that instead of framing it as Rust Foundation Maintainers Fund to say that the Rust project is embarking on a journey to fund developers. With the RFMF being the first one. To try to make it open and let people help direct input if they don't want to do it via the RFMF.

Niko: I think we should have detailed discussion with Tyler about this so we should take this to Zulip.

Niko: We also elected Jakub the lead of the group.

TC: Thanks for the discussion and thanks to the committee for the work on this.

### "Requesting staff updates from the Foundation" leadership-council#261

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/261
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC: The background here is back in April we asked to see the board decks. The staff does a lot of work to put together updates, and these updates have a lot of information not shared anywhere else. It felt inefficient to ask the PDs to put that together when the staff does it already. It's been valuable, in my view, and has improved our communication with the Foundation and with our PDs.

For reasons related to how they want to run board meetings, the updates were put to a separate document not shared with us. On being asked, Bec said it would be inappropriate to share with us.

We should decide if we still want this and for the Council to make a formal request for this information. I believe we have right to this information, but rights not exercised can be lost, and I believe we should preserve the ability of future councils to get these. If we can't get these when things are "boring", I guarantee we'll struggle to get these when things are "interesting" and we do really need these.

James: I want to make sure we're not putting Lori on the spot. I'm sure this wasn't her doing. She should be able to sit this one out if she wants to. I think it is useful to have the information. It's a bummer that this change didn't get to us as a discussion. Would prefer to have gotten a heads-up first.

oli: My main concern is having too much information getting into the Council. The PDs are already on top of it. We can request more information. But being completely transparent is good. Anyone should be able to get the information if they want it. I'm sympathetic, but I don't want to end up with more expectations on the Council.

James: There were times when we were going through line items in the past. I like the transparency but the goal is not always to go through every line item.

TC: The only proposal here is the request to get the documents. It's not proposing we do anything with the documents or discuss them in meetings.

Jakub: I also don't think we need to be going through these line by line. But I don't see a reason why they shouldn't be shared. Unless it's secret, this should be shared with the entire Project. The Foundation should be more accessible and these things less hidden. I'm in favor.

oli: I explicitly want to say that for this request we also do not go through these line by line. I want us to plan that explicitly.

TC: When I propose the FCP, I'll word it to make explicit that this is not proposing any change to the Council meetings. If you look at the text in the issue, the last item says that this is meant to reduce the time needing to be spent on this in meetings.

Josh: I do think we should have access to the information. I also worry that even with PDs looking at the information that people will miss things if it's not being discussed line by line at the board any more. There are going to be things discussed at the board meetings that are not going to be shared outside. Preparing a document for the Project would be a separate more complex ask. I think this should be solved by informal means.

TC: I agree with what you said Josh. Regarding formality, the formal piece is just us agreeing on what we want to do. It says the entire Council agrees with this; it's not just TC asking for this.

Eric: I reflect the sentiment everyone else gave.

Mara: I feel it's nice if the document is available. But if the Foundation wants to operate more independently, that makes sense. Transparency is good though.

oli: Regarding transparency, we talked about things like funding. There were times when the Foundation planned to allocate money and there were moderation concerns there. Having information ahead of time would be useful from the Moderation side.

Jack: My understanding is the stuff got pulled out because the board meetings started going long. There were good discussions and in the board meeting it makes less sense to go line by line. There is a slide where the board can bring up specific line items they care about. Second, I did bring up to the board and staff that the briefing doc as a whole can be made generally public at least to the Project. I know Gracie and maybe Bec are looking at doing that. For the most part it's going to be public to the Project. Maybe it makes sense for the Council to have the notes ahead of time. You will have the transparency -- but after the meeting.

Jack: Personally, I also think that it is PDs's responsibility to handle this. I think the part of the duties of the Council is to delegate things. I  believe that the Council should delegate this responsibility to the PDs. I'd be wary of making the default that the Council should have all the info without thinking about: where do we want to go, what work do we want, what should we delegate.

James: I'm positive on giving PDs more autonomy. However, if the Council is specifically excluded, it makes ambiguity about whether the PDs can share the doc with the Council. What can and can't they share?

Jack: Regardless what happens, the PDs should be given the latitude to share what they think is useful to the Council. I think we have the latitude in general.

Mara: +1.

oli: The other board members are not expected to hide anything they got from their bosses and coworkers. This is kind of the same thing.

James: +1.

TC: And you would mean including the verbatim documents?

oli: Yes.

TC: Jack, to your points. First, I want to be clear nothing here is questioning how the board operates or runs its meetings. It's not about that.

To your second point: I think the Council has the right to the unsavory parts and to see them ahead of the board meeting. Having a sanitized version shared publicly is not the ask here -- that's separately be great -- but the ask here is about private transparency with the council only.

Third: I agree that you, the PDs, are the ones that have the responsibility to be looking at it. We delegate that to you. But I think it's a separate issue to have access to the information.

To agree and amplify Oli's point: Given that the these documents are shared by the corporate directors internally in companies, not having the same internaly transparency for the Project puts the Project in an inferior position. I'd find that a bad sign. I think we have every right to see the documents.

Jack: To clarify: if the PDs think that sharing the document wholesale is the right move, I think we could. I don't think there's different expectation on PDs vs. other corporate members. I think we have the same ability to do the things that we things are appropriate to other corporate board members.

TC: So if the Council were to ask the PDs to share the document ahead of each meeting (privately with the council), would you be personally comfortable doing that?

Jack: I can't say yes wholesale. Most of the doc is going to be shared with the Project. I don't think every single thing in the doc can or should be shared but most of it, yes.

David: Whether we can and can't share thing: we shouldn't share the doc externally but we can discuss things. ANd that's the same guidance the company members get.

James: Would the PDs retain the right not to forward the doc to the Council. I assume Directors are able to show up and their boss ask them. Can someone send the full document to the council or should we expect the Foundation to do that? Can it happen at all and should it happen automatically? I think there's a role for the PDs to say that they don't think they should share the document. This might be a question the PDs discuss before answering.

TC: Good point James. If we make an ask of the PDs, we're implicitly asking the Foundation to not retaliate against the PDs.

Lori: I'm assuming good intent. But what I'm hearing here sounds as if the Foundation is not being trusted. Our board meetings are 2h long and we made this so we can discuss more with the PDs. Because the PDs are elected by the LC, the PDs should have the power to have the discussion to inform the board meetings on what the Project thinks. Bec did just post the summary in the PD private channel so you all have it. It's a timing thing. If you wanted to know what the user group thing is you could have asked and I would have sent it to you.

Lori: If we assume positive intent and teams elect you as the LC and the LC elects PDs, I think this is not as big as it should be.

TC: Lori, thank you for that. I don't mean to question, whatsoever, the change to how the Foundation runs its board meetings. I think it's a good change too. It's all the matter of what becomes accessible to the Council. I assume absolute good intent on your part and Bec's part.


## Topics we didn't get to

* "Discuss how to spend funds for supporting maintainers" [leadership-council#245](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/245)
* "Discussion: Updating and Formalizing Council Expectations for Project Director Communication" [leadership-council#230](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/230)
* "Document which forms of consensus are appropriate and when" [leadership-council#256](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/256)


P-high issues:

* "Review and organize overall project team structure" [leadership-council#33](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33)
* "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" [leadership-council#41](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41)


Issues that need a council decision:

* "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" [leadership-council#24](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24)


Active issues:

* "Document the council's internal decision making process" [leadership-council#31](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31)
* "Establish team charters" [leadership-council#44](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44)
* "Find homes for launching pad teams" [leadership-council#118](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118)


Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo:

* "Allow messages from observers during meetings" [leadership-council#110](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110)
* "rust-foundation-project-director.md: use more clear language" [leadership-council#215](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/215)
* "Add alumni policy" [leadership-council#218](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/218)
* "project directors: responsibilities" [leadership-council#250](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/250)

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

Eric: Is this (issue #261) going to move to FCP or what's going to happen next?

TC: That was my plan. James wanted to raise an objection. But at this point I'm leaning towards the Project Directors handling it like the board members of the companies.

Jack: Before you raise the FCP, I prefer that you let us talk and then discuss.

TC: It wouldn't go into FCP due to the concern holding space for that. For my part, it's OK either way.

James: I know there's going to be an immediate concern. Might be worth letting the PDs talk.

TC: Agreed with all that.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
