# Council meeting 2026-02-13

## Attendance

- Council members: James Munns, Mara, Jakub Beránek, oli, TC, Eric Huss, Josh Stone
- Observers: Jack Huey, Lori Lorusso, Nurzhan Saken, Tshepang Mbambo, Tomas Sedovic, Niko Matsakis

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Tomas

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

TC: Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: I see thumbs up. Hearing those in favor and none opposed, the ayes have it and the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

### Budget snapshot

*Expected time: 2 minutes.*

Estimate:

| Category                  | Amount                |
|---------------------------|-----------------------|
| Program management        | $332,559              |
| Unallocated council funds | $153,458              |
| Travel                    | $70,078.80 (est)      |
| Compiler-ops              | $60,856 (est)         |
| **Total assets**          | **$616,952.55** (est) |

TC: Some figures are estimates; we don't yet have numbers from the Foundation for January.

If both the Outreachy allocation ($25,000) and the grants program ($100,000) are approved, approximately $28,458 would remain in unallocated council funds.

TC: David is working to get monthly numbers from the Foundation so we can reconcile our budget.

People are making travel requests for the All Hands and we're approving them -- that's why the remaining travel grant budget is dropping.

We should probably hold some unallocated funds in reserve -- we've overspent the travel budget in prior years.  On the other hand, we've allocated more to it this year, and the Foundation will be supporting $50k in travel to RustConf.

James: Thanks for putting the numbers up there.

### Vibe check on disabling Copilot review feature globally

*Expected time: 5 minutes.*

Jakub: I'd like to do a quick vibe check on whether the council should decide if t-infra should disable Copilot reviews globally in our orgs, though I also worry that AI-related vibe checks can turn into a rabbit hole :)  See:

<https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/242791-t-infra/topic/automatic.20copilot.20review/with/573698762>

Jakub: Some compiler reviewers were annoyed by the automatic GitHub reviews on the compiler. They want to disable it but it's a global kill switch -- for the organization globally. Who decides this?

TC: In terms of jurisdiction, I agree this is for the Council to decide.  For my part, I'd prefer not to disable it globally -- let's let teams make their own decisions for the repos they own.

Jakub: People are using it on the compiler and we can't disable it just for that repo.

Jack: Interim solution: are there any teams that want to use it? If not, we can disable for org, ask GitHub for granular control and have teams ask us to re-enable it if they want.

TC: It was apparently used in the goals repo.  We're putting pieces in place to use tools like this in the Reference repo.

Jakub: Do you want to use Copilot specifically?

TC: We're exploring options; see the recent t-infra threads about this.

Niko: Are the reviews done automatically? How does this work?

Jakub: The PR author requests them. If it were only visible to the author, it'd be okay. But right now the automated review spams the issue.

Niko: Could we extend the triagebot to hide it automatically?

oli: I brought that up in the thread. People using the Copilot reviews would be fine if the PRs went into draft automatically.

TC: Can we add something to our PR templates telling people what we'd like them to do or not do with Copilot on `rust-lang/rust`?

oli: I think you can enable it on your repo. We can't disable *that*.

TC: If I open a PR and I ask Copilot to review it for me before sending it to Rust devs -- is that a problem?

oli: Despite my AI criticism, I find that okay.

TC: Jakub, did you get the vibe you were looking for?

Jakub: Yes, I wanted to see if this is a Council issue.

## Nominated issues

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated, A-program-management

*Expected time: 4 minutes.*

TC: The second PM (nxsaken) started around 2026-02-03 and is now approximately two weeks in.  Tomas and Nurzhan continue work on Project Goals, CPython collaboration, Foundation coordination, and supporting teams across the Project.

Tomas: I wanted to extend hello to Nurzhan. Really happy he's here. We've been working together to get him on board. This week he's started taking minutes as well. He's hit the ground running working on project goals. I've been giving him context. I've scheduled a regular code-signing meeting with Walter Pearce and the interested Project members. Other than that, we've spent most of our time working on Project Goals and got the RFL roadmap ready. I'll be taking the minutes on this meeting so that Nurzhan can learn the people, their voices, and how this meeting is run. We expect he'll be taking minutes next.

### "Discuss Rust Foundation Maintainers Fund" leadership-council#242

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/242
- **Labels:** A-foundation, I-council-nominated

*Expected time: 4 minutes.*

The RFMF Design Committee, led by Jakub Beránek, continues its work.  Lori is organizing outreach calls with team leads to understand maintenance needs across the Project.  The committee has conducted outreach to several peer organizations.

One area of active discussion is the tension between a restricted fund approach (where donations are earmarked for specific purposes) and an unrestricted approach (where the Foundation has discretion over allocation).

Jakub: Niko drafted the original RFC. Described how it might interface with the various funds and getting more concrete information around RFMF. We talked about this yesterday and plan to reduce the scope a bit.

Niko: I'm doing an experiment first. I'm explaining the fund in detail and from that extracting a general pattern we can update to other funds. And talk about Project goals and how they fit. If that still feels like too much, we can slice that up after.

TC: Good. Any other updates, questions?

TC: Thanks to the subcommittee for their continued work on this.

### "Participation in Outreachy (dedication of funds)" leadership-council#264

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/264
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, proposed-final-comment-period, disposition-merge, I-council-nominated, A-budget

*Expected time: 10 minutes.*

**Time-sensitive.**  Jack Huey proposes dedicating up to $25,000 from the Project Priorities budget to support three Outreachy interns.  An FCP was proposed by ehuss on 2026-02-11.

The org sign-up deadline is **2026-02-26**, so the council needs to reach a decision soon.

**Budget impact:** $25,000 from unallocated council funds ($153,458 → $128,458).

Jack: There's an upcoming deadline setting up an org. You need to say the number of interns you intend to support. Unlike GSoC where Google pays the stipend, here the orgs pay the stipend. The stipend for the intern is $7k USD and Outreachy needs $1-3k for management. I'm requesting Council to allocate $25k ($8k minimum + $1k to support the org). I expect to be able to find 5-6 mentors that can do some mentoring.

Jack: I talked to a few people who will try to get some company support for this. That's up in the air for now though. I want to sign up and say what we can commit. I'd be okay with even just confirming one intern to start with. I need the Council to say whether the Council would support this.

TC: Talk to me about the financial arrangement -- when do we pay, to whom, and who decides what the overhead is within that range?

Jack: I don't know exactly when we pay. The actual internship starts May 18th. Mid-march we finish our set up as an org. Early April interns start looking for projects. They submit small pull requests, they talk to mentors. Internship starts in May.

Tomas: If memory serves, I believe it's paid before the internship starts.

Jack: Everything I've read is 8k minimum. If you can do more, that's great.

Jack: Regarding the timing sensitivity, the sooner we can commit funds, the sooner I can start setting everything up. I'll talk to Lori. And we can start looking at projects to bring them up. The sooner I can get the verbal commitment of the sum the sooner I can start.

TC: You mentioned Outreachy being in financial duress.  What do we know about that?

Jack: They haven't been getting as many donations as in the past. In the past they had a general funds to cover orgs that couldn't pay.  The site is not perfectly up-to-date. This is part of the reason for there being at least some overhead to support the org.

TC: I understand the Software Freedom Conservancy is the parent organization for Outreachy. Does the money go to SFC or Outreachy?

Jack: I don't know exactly. Outreachy is a well-established org.

Tomas: Looking at the website, seems like SFC is the organization handling the funds. That fits my recollection when my previous job paid this.

TC: Regarding the budget: when I structured the ask for the renewed grants program, I'd left $50k unallocated to handle things that might come up during the year.  This would cut into that buffer, though that's probably OK -- I was being conservative, and we'd still have over $25k remaining.  To put the $25k in perspective, it's roughly equivalent to supporting 1.5 additional Project members with grants for a year.

James: Having Outreachy is getting into a different set of people than we have in the Project and that's a positive thing to do. Even if it means we have to reduce the Grants program by 10-20k or so.

TC: I think we'll be OK on the numbers.  I plan to check a box.

### "Grants team and 2026 grants program" rfcs#3919

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3919
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

*Expected time: Remainder of meeting.*

TC: This RFC proposes allocating $100,000 to fund approximately five grants at $1,500/month.  It also creates a new five-person Grants team chartered as a pseudo-top-level team in the launching pad to manage selection and oversight.

This represents a middle ground between the retrospective recognition approach and the forward-looking funding approach discussed at the [2026-01-30 meeting].  The RFC replaces the broader discussion in *[Discuss how to spend funds for supporting maintainers][LC-245]*.

Key points of the RFC:

- Allocates $100,000 from the Project Priorities budget for approximately five grants at $1,500/month, paid quarterly, for 12-month terms.

- Creates a new five-person Grants team, appointed by the council and chartered as a Launching Pad subteam.  The team manages selection and oversight.

- Takes a middle-ground approach: selects grantees based on demonstrated track records (retrospective element) but provides ongoing support with an expectation of continued contribution (forward-looking element).  No specific deliverables or milestones are required.

- Uses a lightweight self-application process.  Applicants are evaluated on contribution history, continued engagement, benefit from support, and diversity of coverage across Project areas.  Teams and members can express support for applicants.

- Reporting is light — a few paragraphs quarterly.  Project Goals updates satisfy the requirement.  Program managers help.

- Grants are not automatically renewed.  Grantees reapply each year, though effective grants carry a natural advantage (reduced uncertainty).

- Designed to complement, not compete with, the RFMF.  Grants are smaller, flexible, and Project-controlled; the RFMF is larger, corporate-funded, and Foundation-administered.

- Timeline: Discuss in February, FCP in late February or early March, team forms in March, applications open in April, first payments in May.

**Budget impact:** $100,000 from unallocated council funds.  Combined with the Outreachy allocation, this would leave approximately $28,458 in unallocated reserve.  (The RFC's own reserve figure of $50,000 doesn't account for the Outreachy allocation.)

[2026-01-30 meeting]: https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/minutes/sync-meeting/2026-01-30.md
[LC-245]: https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/245

TC: I propose we take 6-7 minutes to read through the summary and the [RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3919) and then talk about it.

---

TC: OK, it's been 7 minutes.

Jack: The current proposal is for 12 months. What if it's 9 months instead? Lines up more with the Project Goals. If we start in March, that's the 2026 project goal period. Less time, but if we allocate same amount of money, that's higher monthly payment. Could help more people dedicate time.

TC: Interesting idea.  I'd lean against it -- we're likely to continue many of these grants, and it'd be better to do that without a three-month gap.

Josh: 1.5 x 12 x 5 contributors is 90k. So the 100k means 10k buffer. We just talked about Outreachy which we mentioned might eat into that budget.

TC: It's to cover expenses related to the program.

Josh: What sort of expenses? I didn't notice any in the RFC.

TC: The previous grants program accounted for grantee expenses.  I took the hardware grant out of this RFC, but I always imagine a program like this might have unexpected or ancillary expenses, and 10% felt like an appropriate buffer.  That said, until the money's spent, it's still in our bank account -- we're setting the maximum allocation.  It could be rolled into the next year or returned to us.

Josh: I don't think we need it, but I wanted to express that there is this padding. Thank you.

James: What are the offramps if the relationship sours? Code of conduct, people want to walk away. We should discuss that and have it on paper so people know what the options are. I'm happy with the proposal.

TC: The RFC discusses this -- there's a list of scenarios, how we'd respond, and how to address problems if they come up.  I do expect things like that will come up eventually.  It'll be in the hands of the Grants team to handle them.

TC: To speak about the $25k for Outreachy and $100k for this: even if we spent all of it, we'd still have a bit more than $25k unallocated.  We've never overspent on travel grants by that much.  We've also increased the travel grant allocation this year, and the Foundation is backing that with another $50k for RustConf travel.  So we should be OK; it's just something to keep in mind.

TC: What next? Someone want to propose FCP merge?

oli: There are comments on the RFC that need addressing. Other than that, we can go to the FCP and figure things out during that period.

James: Maybe FCP tomorrow? So we can check back to this at the next Council meeting if need be?

TC: Works for me.

---

TC: Going back to Outreachy for just a moment: as a heads-up, I've too been talking with people to see whether there's interest in supporting the program financially.  It's the sort of thing that might be attractive for companies.  Similarly, I've been exploring this for Project grants.  I'd like us to restart not just the part of the program proposed, but also the Project Goals grants -- the part that funds work on specific goals.  To restart that part, I'd want the money to come from outside.  I've talked with people at some companies that may be interested.  If we can find support, I'll file a second RFC for that part of the program, managed by the same Grants team.

Jack: If you're talking to people about Outreachy funding, we should talk so we don't talk to the same people. I've also already started talking to people.

TC: The people I've been talking to are in the Project and would know to reconcile between us.  I didn't know you'd already started prior to this call.

James: If you're looking for additional funding, could we talk to the Foundation to see if we can get someone to double/triple it etc. Also, you said you were soliciting folks directly. Was that for Grants and Outreachy?

TC: For both Grants and Outreachy.  I'm talking to people within the Project who are at companies that have historically supported this kind of work.

James: Might be worth being careful about soliciting funds for the Project so it's not coming from just one person and so the Council and Foundation are aware and on board. We should look professional and be mindful of fiduciary duties.

TC: If, e.g., Niko and I have a conversation and I say that it'd be interesting if Amazon were to support this, I don't think that would make us look unprofessional, violate any fiduciary duties, etc.

Lori: I'm at a similar point as James and Jack. When you don't bring in the Foundation, we're talking to people who work at the same organizations, and it risks becoming a mess. If you're not contracting people individually, the Foundation will have to handle the financial side of things. If there's push to talk to other sponsors, giving us a heads-up is great. This is a great tag-team; we talked about this on the RFMF side of things. We know teams who are in dire need of support, etc. Pulling the Foundation in is not a bad thing.

James: I also want to make sure there's no appearance of impropriety. We want to make sure people aren't getting any benefits beyond what was discussed. Keeping more than one person in the loop helps keep everyone's nose clean.

Niko: I talked to both Jack and TC and I'm happy to discuss it. I agree with James and Lori that we should put this together and start coordinating. But I also don't think TC did anything wrong in our conversation. I reached out to him. But we're reaching a point where this is a really good idea, and I was thinking about tying it to Project Goals. We could find the right people for sponsors to help move goals forward. Conversations are good, but we should set up a place where interested sponsors can go next. I think the Foundation should help.

James: The Council exists because of well-meaning backchanneling. Even a heads-up in the private channels is good.

TC: We all agree we should talk more.

## Nominated issues not discussed this meeting

### "Discuss how to spend funds for supporting maintainers" leadership-council#245

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/245
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated, A-budget

### "Document which forms of consensus are appropriate and when" leadership-council#256

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/256
- **Labels:** A-process, I-council-nominated

### "Requesting staff updates from the Foundation" leadership-council#261

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/261
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, A-foundation, I-council-nominated

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

TC: Hearing none, there are no clarifications.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
