# Council meeting 2026-01-30

## Attendance

- Council members: TC, oli, James Munns, Josh Stone, Jakub Beranek, Eric Huss
  - Regrets: Mara
- Project directors: David Wood, Jack Huey
- Project staff: Tomas Sedovic
- Foundation staff: Lori Lorusso
- Observers: Tshepang Mbambo, Alejandra GonzÃ¡lez

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Tomas Sedovic

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

TC: The proposed agenda dedicates most of the meeting to discussing how to spend Project funds for supporting maintainers (*[Discuss how to spend funds for supporting maintainers][LC-245]*).  This reflects the interest expressed in prior meetings and the fact that we haven't yet had a deep discussion on this topic.  The other nominated items (*[Document which forms of consensus are appropriate and when][LC-256]* and *[Requesting staff updates from the Foundation][LC-261]*) are deferred to the next meeting.

After two brief updates (PM and RFMF), we'd spend roughly 40 minutes on maintainer funding, organized into four discussion topics:

1. Purpose and philosophy (10 min)
2. Program structure (10 min)
3. Selection and process (10 min)
4. Oversight and coordination (10 min)

Does anyone have concerns with this plan or other items that should take priority today?

TC: Seeing support and no objections, the agenda is approved.

[LC-245]: https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/245
[LC-256]: https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/256
[LC-261]: https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/261

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

### Outreachy

Jack: Do we need council approval for [Outreachy](https://www.outreachy.org/), or is that delegated to the mentorship team?

TC: This would be within the scope of what we delegated to the mentorship team.  In collaboration with Jakub, I wrote the charter for that, so I happen to recall.

TC: I'm seeing thumbs-up from the room.

Jack: It's similar to GSoC in its stated intention, but they focus more on minority groups.

Tomas: Are you proposing projects or also funding?

Jack: I'd been thinking to do projects.  I should look to see what the funding looks like.

TC: Sounds like it would be good discussion for the mentorship team.

### Budget report

TC: Our standing is:

**Current assets:**

| Category                  | Amount       |
|---------------------------|--------------|
| Program management        | $343,636     |
| Unallocated council funds | $153,458     |
| Travel                    | $100,000     |
| Compiler-ops              | $65,176      |
| **Total assets**          | **$662,270** |

**2026 Foundation funding:** $424,683, comprising:

- $118,673 from the old grants program budget (rolled in).
- $306,010 new funds.

**Historical comparison:**

- 2024-2025: The council received $325,000/year from the Foundation.
- Project grants were funded separately by the Foundation, most recently at a rate of $320k/yr; the council supplemented this last year with $80k from its budget in October 2024.
- The grants program budget has now been rolled into the council budget.

Eric Huss and I will request details from the Foundation at the end of this month about spend and liabilities from this budget for January so this report can be kept up to date.

TC: As Eric mentioned last week, he and I put together our entire backlog of accounting for this budget.  We have $153,458 USD of unallocated funds for this year.  We brought in $306k of new funds and we're also rolling in money from the old grants program.

## Nominated issues

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

**Time estimate:** 4 min

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated, A-program-management

TC: The second PM candidate has accepted and will start on Monday.  Tomas and I will meet with him to get him up to speed.  Thanks to Joel Marcey at the Foundation for coordinating from their side.

Tomas: Project goals: we got most of the goals proposed; there's a few that are going to be open within the next few days.  Next steps: review them in more depth, invite people to do the same.

The CPython folks asked for suggestions around introducing Rust to C programmers, easing their worries, and for strategies to add Rust code to an existing C codebase.  I asked the Rust for Linux folks and they're happy to do it.  We've invited them to the meeting next Thursday.

I've scheduled a meeting around TUF / code signing.  I wasn't able to make it and I'm waiting to hear how things went.  Walter Pearce is expected to write the project goal for signing.

TC: Can you speak high-level about the work you were doing to get better reporting from these initiatives on the Foundation side?  I know you had a conversation about that.

Tomas: I had a meeting with Joel.  I stressed how important it is to get regular updates.  He said that expectation makes sense.  I'm also talking with Joel regularly each month.  If I see any issues, I'll bring those back to him; the people here report to him.

(Ended: 20m into meeting.)

### "Discuss Rust Foundation Maintainers Fund" leadership-council#242

**Time estimate:** 4 min

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/242
- **Labels:** A-foundation, I-council-nominated

TC: The RFMF (Rust Foundation Maintainers Fund) committee has been meeting regularly, with Jakub elected as lead.  Recent progress includes:

- Lori is organizing calls with team leads to understand maintenance needs.
- Tyler met with a company VP about budgeting perspectives.
- Outreach to other organizations (Scala Center, PSF, Python, Zig Foundation).
- Discussion of RFC scope and whether to frame this as a broader "Rust Maintainer Program."

TC: Jakub; if you would, tell us about it.

Jakub: Lori scheduled calls with team leads and Project members to ask what's the status of their team and what maintenance work they need.  We'll have more calls this week and the next.  Niko organized calls with other software foundations.  There was a call with a Python dedicated developer, with more to come.  Good progress.

Niko: We're gathering data.  Yesterday's call was short -- low attendance.  If you're interested in more specifics, we should chat in the `#funding` channel.

(Ended: 22m into meeting.)

### "Discuss how to spend funds for supporting maintainers" leadership-council#245

**Time estimate:** ~40 min

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/245
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated, A-budget

TC: As background:

**Budget context:** The council has approximately $153k in unallocated funds for 2026.  The grants program budget ($118,673) was rolled into the council budget this year, which is one source of these funds.

This is the main discussion item for today.  We need to develop a framework for how the Council might use these funds to support maintainers.

**Discussion topics:**

1. Purpose and philosophy (10 min)
2. Program structure (10 min)
3. Selection and process (10 min)
4. Oversight and coordination (10 min)

Eric and I are working on a proposal; this discussion will help shape it.

Niko: For clarification, this is for the funds that the LC received from RF, not RFMF?

TC: Yes; these are council funds, not the RFMF.

TC: This is not a ton of money -- it's significantly less than previous years, but it's not nothing.  And we still need to account for other requests that may come up throughout the year and what we need to hold in reserve.  E.g., in prior years we've needed to allocate further funds into the travel budget.  Also, I know that the Content team may be making requests for hardware and services to support their work.

James: What is the goal for today's discussion?  It's a large chunk of the meeting.  Is it to come up with a plan?  Come up with what the allocation should be and FCP it?

TC: We won't talk more about the number.  Eric and I will look at the accounting and historicals and come up with something reasonable to propose on that.

For this meeting, I propose that we collect thoughts and ideas from everyone here on the four identified discussion topics above so Eric and I can incorporate those into a proposal that we'll bring back to the council.

James: +1.

TC: Item 1 -- *Purpose and Philosophy*: What's the problem we're solving with direct council grants?  How is it different from RFMF, and how do we make it complementary to it?  What are we trying to achieve?

TC: Let's do this by round-robin.  I'll go around the room.

Jakub: Multiple possibilities.  I don't think we can support anyone full time.  I'd like to use it to show gratitude to people from the Project for their work.  We could do that through the proposal I've shared: "you're doing great work, here's a reward."  Or we could resume the grants program.  It should reward contributors and support multiple people at the same time rather than a single individual.

Josh: I agree we want to spread this around.  It's nice to have Project priorities where we can decide what we want to do.  That's different from general maintenance, which is what RFMF does.

James: If RFMF is focused on employment with ongoing work or identifiable work, it makes sense for us to do something different.  This is a gap that's good to cover.

Oli: RFMF is for maintenance.  This is for people who are doing projects -- useful for students and other people not looking for a full-time job.  Fund this to let them keep doing their work in their hobby time.

James: +1.

Eric: Filling in the gaps is the strategy I was intending too.

TC: Eric, I know you have thoughts on how small amounts of money can help.  Perhaps you could add color to that.

Eric: For myself it's helpful.  Different people have different goals for why they're in the Rust Project.  I'm not here to do a full-time or part-time job.  There are things I want to do, on my own terms.  Grants make that easier to do.  Things take a lot of time; the grants can help justify doing things you don't necessarily want to do.  This approach is very helpful for some people.

TC: I've heard similar stories.  E.g., I know of someone on an academic track whose work is focused on Rust and he's doing great things for us.  He's working in a hot area and is turning down big job offers to keep doing this work.  But he'd really like to not have to take another TA position to pay the bills.  A little bit of money would help him (and us) a lot.

David: I've heard similar things from students and contributors.

Jack: I don't have strong feelings here.  This could go a lot of different ways.  You'll get different types of maintenance and support from people who are doing it in their spare time, students, etc.  It comes down to identifying what we need and working towards that.  We shouldn't just say "we can fund a bunch of people" -- is that useful?  The Foundation grants were like this and I'd be cautious to say we should do that again, unless we have a good reason why doing that again but differently would work better.  I don't want to do something without the reasoning for why we should do it.

Oli: The big difference from the previous grants is that we'd do it after the fact as a thank you.  This avoids having to judge whether a proposal is a good idea.  It's something I've been advocating for a while.  I'd like it to be mostly existing maintainers suggesting that thank-you money be given to others.

Niko: I like the idea of doing something different.  There's no single right answer here.  I think the RFMF is more aimed at year-long repeating funds.  A lot of people will want that but a lot of people won't.  I think we should aim for something that won't require a lot of discussion in this meeting.  And I think the Foundation will ask you to set up a group of people to decide.  But I like the idea of retroactive thank yous.  I also like what TC said about finding opportunities with big impact.

Jack: There's money from the Foundation that's expected (the RFMF).  And then there's money from the council that's currently unbudgeted but earmarked.  It doesn't mean the council needs to put its unallocated budget into the maintainers fund.  There are multiple options and doing more than one thing could work better than a single thing.  It's okay to have multiple things, and to do something different than what the Foundation does.  If the council's budget is smaller, we should be allocating it to smaller things like thank yous or part-time work, and RFMF should be more for full-time things.  They're separate budgets and we don't need to combine them.

TC: Item 2 -- *Program Structure*: How large should the grants be?  Should we be supporting more or fewer people?  What do we think about the term?  Does anyone have any particular opinions?

Jakub: First we should decide what we actually want to do.  We discussed three options: put the money into RFMF, do retroactive thank yous, or create a new form of the grants program.  We should decide which way to go and figure out details of what we choose.

Jack: That's "how" but what hasn't been answered is "what" and "why."  And they influence the "how."

Jakub: Those are of course related.  If we want to thank contributors, that's the "why."  And that's how we could motivate contributions.  I don't think we can specify what our motivation is in great detail without figuring out what we want to do.

James: Yes, we should figure out what we want to do. +1 to Jakub.

Josh: The previous section was the "why."  What I heard there was "smaller grants over a larger area."

James: Do we have some consensus on doing smaller "thank you" oriented grants?  Can we do a quick round the room thumbs-up?

> [!NOTE]
> TC: As discussed below, many of us missed the "thank you" part of what James said and were responding to Josh's summary.  This resulted in us undoing this vibe check.  In retrospect, even for a vibe check, we should have written down clearly what we were meaning to review.

TC: Let's do that.  Seeing thumbs-up from James, Oli, Eric, Jakub, and Josh, along with my support, the "ayes" have it.

Jack: Is this the council's unallocated budget or also some future budget?  If a future company donates, say, $200k, are we putting all that into these smaller-scale grants?

TC: We're talking specifically about the council-allocated budget we have.  If it were expanded, we'll have a discussion about that when it happens.

Oli: I don't have anything more on this.

James: To confirm what just got locked in: we will spend some fraction of our budget on some part of thank-you grants -- e.g. we find 16 people to give some amount.

Lori (in chat): Is the remaining budget all going to "thank you"s?

TC: As clarification, this is a "vibe check."  We've not allocated anything yet; the council has not made any decision.  But this vibe check will help those writing a proposal to understand the views of council members so that a proposal can be drafted and FCPed.  Only once the council has adopted a proposal by FCP will we have made a decision and allocated money.

Eric: I want to continue with the grants program in some form.  There are changes we can make to make it more effective -- around reporting, feedback on how things are going.  I think it's more than just "thank you."  It's an acknowledgment of people already contributing.  But also an amount of support for people who would otherwise not be able to contribute, or to relieve their stress.  I'd phrase it differently.  I'd prefer to not do retroactive things -- a lot of people can't receive money, which could make this complicated.  People who are actively working on things and will continue working on those things -- I'd focus on those.  I'd love to thank people more; it's something we should do more of in the Project in many ways.  But the focus here is for people who *are* doing good work, and we're supporting them to continue.

Niko: Are you saying a -1 to the vibe check we did?

Eric: It's a slight change in phrasing.  It's an acknowledgment of people we appreciate.  But it's not retrospective.  "Thank you" would be retrospective; a grant is more future-looking.

Lori (in chat): The lack of outcome was one of the reasons the grant program stalled and is up for restructure.

TC: Looking now at the minutes, I see that I hadn't heard the "thank you"s part of the proposal.  For my part, I was responding to Josh's summary that we would focus on smaller grants.  I would move to strike the "thank you"s part from that vibe check.

James: Instead of calling it "thank you," let's call it "thank you and please keep going."  We can give this to people who are doing things.  But are we going to set up the definition of getting things done, follow-up, etc.?  If we're picking people we have reasonable faith will keep doing this, and we're not checking in and following up on the grants, doing "thank you and please" might be a good way to plan that.

Josh: I agree with that.  I don't think we want to judge people.  That may come around at renewal.  I like the idea of thanks in general.  When someone new, e.g., puts together a good proposal that gets accepted, it would be nice to support them.

TC: I'd still like to amend this to us having voiced "smaller over larger grants."  I think it should be low touch, in terms of reporting.  But at the same time, if we award a one-year grant and someone gets hired by Google two months into it to work on something entirely unrelated to Rust, then I don't think we should be paying the remaining months of the grant.  There must be some line.

Oli: If we gave them money and they disappeared, we already gave it to them because they did good work in the past.  I think this is less about renewing.  You get money for a year.

TC: Hearing mixed discussion, including in chat, and looking at the time, we're negating our earlier vibe check entirely.  We'll discuss this afterward and can pick the rest up async as well.  Does that sound right to everyone?

TC: I'm seeing thumbs-up.

Oli (in chat): Considering my internet connection, closing notes in text: I think it was good to quickly share information between us all on the topic.  We're now in a good place, in my opinion, to continue on Zulip.

Lori (in chat): With the budget that is left you could put it in multiple buckets: grants, "thank you"s, and experiments.

## Nominated issues not addressed in this meeting

* "Document which forms of consensus are appropriate and when" [leadership-council#256](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/256)

This issue arose from the 2025-12-19 meeting when there was uncertainty about whether a verbal poll during the meeting was appropriate for budget decisions.  Eric noted this is related to *[Document the council's internal decision making process][LC-31]* and *[Tracking issue for Council Transparency work][LC-71]*.  Jakub suggested documenting which things require formal FCP vs. treating other discussions as vibe checks.

[LC-31]: https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31
[LC-71]: https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/71

* "Requesting staff updates from the Foundation" [leadership-council#261](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/261)

Follow-up from the 2026-01-16 meeting.  The PDs were to discuss internally and report back on how they want to handle sharing Foundation briefing documents with the council.  James suggested giving the PDs time to discuss before any FCP; the question is about what the PDs can share proactively with the council.

P-high issues:

* "Review and organize overall project team structure" [leadership-council#33](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/33)
* "Document and improve processes for interaction with the Rust Foundation" [leadership-council#41](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/41)

Issues that need a council decision:

* "Figure out a strategy for licensing considerations" [leadership-council#24](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/24)

Active issues:

* "Document the council's internal decision making process" [leadership-council#31](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/31)
* "Establish team charters" [leadership-council#44](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/44)
* "Find homes for launching pad teams" [leadership-council#118](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/118)

Pending PRs on the leadership-council repo:

* "Allow messages from observers during meetings" [leadership-council#110](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/110)
* "rust-foundation-project-director.md: use more clear language" [leadership-council#215](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/215)

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

TC: Hearing none, there are no points to be clarified.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
