---
title: Council meeting 2026-02-27
tags: ["council", "triage-meeting", "minutes"]
date: 2026-02-27
discussion: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/392734-council/topic/Meeting.202026-02-27/
agenda-url: https://hackmd.io/hHTycG1TR8WNkQ907BW8OQ
url: https://hackmd.io/c1buAmGITQ2KiLXvFIKk0Q
---

# Council meeting agenda

- Meeting date: 2026-02-27

## Attendance

- Council members: Eric Huss, James Munns, Josh Stone, Mara Bos, TC, Jakub Beránek
- Observers: David Wood, Jack Huey, Lori Lorusso, Nurzhan Saken, Tomas Sedovic
- Regrets: Oli

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Nurzhan Saken, Tomas Sedovic

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: Hearing support and no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

### Leads Summit

Jack: https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/270

Jack: This is also a reminder/question about next year's All Hands. Has the council thought about this at all, and if so, do we want RustNL host it again? Is there anything else Rust Foundation wants to do?

TC: What's the timeline -- when do we need to make these decisions?  This is probably a question for Mara.

Mara: RustNL would be happy to host again.

Mara: It would be nice to know before August/September, otherwise it'd be tricky to do it on time. We'll need to make commitments with venues.

Jack: The reason I bring it up is: can the Foundation do anything for the All Hands?

Mara: Money.

Jack: If the Council doesn't want RustNL hosting it or move it around, having that decision sooner would be good.

Niko: The All Hands is awesome, and other kinds of events too. We need more opportunities for people to connect. How can the Foundation help the All Hands? Money, for sure. Lori helps with gathering up agenda. Are there other venues or events we could organize through the Foundation? If the Foundation exists to connect us to industry leaders and sponsors – can it do that?

Jack: This leads into the second question. The Foundation potentially has a spot around RustConf to org a community summit. PDs discussed the possiblity of having a lead summit, one focused around organization and less around technical aspects.

TC: Two things.  One, you might want to look at 2025-07-17 meeting minutes, where we were joined by Gracie to discuss the Foundation's interest in the All Hands. In that meeting, Gracie expressed the Foundation did have some interest in hosting the event.  They were particularly concerned by the prospect of us making any multiyear commitment to host it with RustNL.  At the same time, she acknowledged the challenges the Foundation would face in hosting this event.  For my part, I'm happy with RustNL hosting the event, but we may want to ensure we have a conversation with the Foundation before making plans on this.

TC: Two, this discussion seems to be an exploration item. It'd probably be worth having an async discussion first to clarify the ask on this, then we could bring it back to a future meeting.

Jack: All Hands is driven by the Project. If the council would like RF to be more involved in All Hands, now is a good time to think about how to help, rather than waiting for after All Hands. This is the reason I bring this up. For the exploration point: for RustConf, if there is a Leads summit / community summit, it'd be good to have something sooner or later so that the Foundation knows to plan it, organize the venue. An async discussion is fine, but it's something that can't be left for months. If the Council wants the Foundation to do / host something, we should address this within a week or two.

Mara: I don't know how much we can expect people to travel. We might want to be careful with that.

TC: As I see it, the next step would be making a proposal. If someone from the Foundation -- or the Project Directors -- would like to make a plan and propose it to us, so we can consider the tradeoffs, that would be helpful. Otherwise it's a bit challenging to give feedback in the abstract.

Lori: I want to give background on why Leads Summit was an idea. This comes from the team meeetings we had with RFMF subcommittee. We have a travel budget, time and space for schedule to make that possible, which is why Jack is bringing it up now. I'm not sure what kind of proposal you need from us, but this was the impetus that led to this. There's funding that doesn't cut into the Project's budget. If this is something we want, there could be a further discussion. I'd like a clarification on what you'd like to see.

Jack: To extend on that, the point: would the Council like to see something at RustConf? And are there specific points on what there should/shouldn't be?

Mara, I agree that having something all leads are expected to attend to might be difficult. I like what Niko suggested that it not be a lead summit but more of an organizational thing. My personal proposal is to have some kind of thing, and if the council agrees, we can come up with a concrete proposal, otherwise there's no point to waste time on one. Should we do something, and what?

Niko: This conversation has been confusing, let me clear it up. One thread is a discussion on All Hands and other opportunities to grow the community. The other is a vibe check on having a team support meeting. I don't think of it as "leads" meeting. People who want to come would get travel support, and we'd discuss the kinds of things we discuss at lead summits. That vibe check is the immediate ask here. Seems like the vibe is positive. Would be good to know if people think it's a bad idea.

Mara: If there's a topic we think all team leads should meet about, we should put it on All Hands. If there are more opportunities - great, but if there are already topics, would be good to talk about them already (at the All Hands).

Niko: We could do both. I find there's a lot of people at the All Hands, so we could do this at RustConf.

Mara: Something I mentioned before, let's be careful about expecting people to travel to several things a year. 

TC: I second that. There are many people volunteering their time who have other responsibilities. Asking them to travel, as though it were a job, can seem onerous.

James: +1.

Niko: Sounds good. Lori and I will discuss this further.

### Society-Admins team

James: https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/260

Expected time: Less than 5 minutes.

James: There's been progress in the last couple of weeks. Found folks willing to volunteer. Next step is to open a team PR. The goal is for admins to live in the project, the society chapters live outside the project. Then start moving existing groups to the society, then start bringing new teams into the chapter. And then providing venues for e.g. companies to talk to each items. If anyone has groups of people that don't have a project but they would like to hang out together, talk to me -- I'd love to hear more and think about society groups.

TC: James, a question for you. I'm sure you've seen the proposal for Rust in industry users group (what was the RIUG, and now is the RCN -- Rust Commercial Network). How would that intersect with the work you're proposing?

James: Somewhat overlapping goals with different "customers". Industry groups is more for companies that want to adopt Rust or have it support the specific things they need. The other is more grassroots. For some industries, a critical mass needs to be reached. The Society will be more bottom-up/grassroots; RCN will be industry-oriented. They overlap in "let's get more feedback into the Project, and have more outlets for discussion", but they chase different audience profiles.

Lori: If you look at the chat, I put an [updated version](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AN9r42ZTIL7mZ62s0tg6X41SUgm49h7lSpPPDaRtcz8) of the Rust Commercial Network document. This was taken from a document shared earlier and cleaned up.

Lori: This is an example of the overlap that can happen. This can foster a relationship for people working with the Project.

James: Like Lori said, there's room for graduation there. Some can start from the volunteer network and transition to RCN, and vice versa. Lots of outlets there.

### External project channels in Zulip

Maybe related (to society): https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/271

Niko: This is connected to the previous point. I proposed that we should allow project members to nominate external projects/groups to have Zulip channels. We shouldn't be too persnickety, be too restrictive. I put some rules in the issue. We want to foster inner connection with Rust teams, so it'd be nice for them to spin up their own channels. RS groups could be a good candidate for this.

Lori: I also have that the RCN's communications would be in the Project Zulip.

TC: How similar is this to what we did for Rust for Linux? They have their own Zulip instance, but we also have channels for them in ours to facilitate our coordination with them.

Niko: I see this as more expansive than that. I was thinking more like general Project discussion. For example, Clap. Back when it was new, its founder could have created a channel when it was being developed. Now it's semi-blessed, but it wouldn't have been initially.

James: This is the hope for society chapters, that it's lightweight: they'd have a contact point, you'd be able to open a PR to add a chapter. Having more communication with the project is good. If it's easy for projects like Clap or Tokio to get set up, I'm good. 

TC: I second what James said. The lower the barrier to talking to us, the better. Given how our tooling makes it seamless for people to use dependencies, there's a sense in which all public dependencies are part of the experience of using Rust, if not part of the Project itself. Often I see a project and wish we were talking more with the people behind it. This comes up, e.g., related to lang work.

Josh: The main concern I have is the moderation question. Oli is not here, but would moderators be okay with having more channels and communities? It would be convenient for me to have a space on Zulip where I'm already present to discuss my crate(s). I could use that space for talking to people without feeling like they intrude on the Rust Project.

Niko: That was one of the examples on my mind. James, you mentioned something about vetting and going through the society. I imagined a more lightweight mechanism that involves a crate author DMing someone on a Rust team asking to create a channel. Did you propose creating a society for each of these? That seems more heavy-weight. What's the process?

James: The society is like a phone book of Rust users. The goal is to not make membership a subjective evaluation or highly bureaucratic. We could set up a PR template, and if they check all the boxes, we merge it, and they are in. The goal is not to make the society chapter onerous. And we could e.g. put a checkbox "do you want a zulip channel created too?". And when we're "garbage collecting" the society, we could also delete the zulip channel.

TC: In terms of next steps, would you like Niko's proposal to wait until you're ready with the Rust Society, or would it be OK for it to proceed and be rolled in later?

James: I'd be ok with it proceeding. The risk is having something to clean up later. The reason we're not making it open season right now is that we'll see process we need to handle. Having a set of friendly groups would be good.

Niko: We can move it to zulip, but my vibe check is "why not do it".

James: Sounds good.

## Nominated issues

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated, A-program-management

Project goals: reviews, edits, merging of open proposals. We reached out to teams around sizing and soliciting champions. We had several discussions around communication and tracking.

Rust+CPython: We've discussed build systems and linking. Both of these are large topics we'll be returning to. We've talked about doing a RustConf talk on the initiative. Tomas opened the proposal to have it within the deadline. We wanted someone from the Python group to present but none of them can make it. We'll look into doing a pre-recorded session or see if someone from the Rust side can (co-)present.

Rust for Linux: Went through things they'd like to see prioritised (i.e. land in the next Debian release -- about a year from now).

Nurzhan read-up on Rust for Linux, C++ interop, Rust for CPython, learned Project goal tooling and made changes. He took most of the meeting notes (with Tomas as a back-up) and improved significantly.

Tomas: The cadence of new goals slowed down. Next up Niko, Nurzhan and I will look over the goals, review their sizing, champions, and decide which ones will get accepted. Lori suggested we might want to have a session at RustConf about the collab we set up with CPython and share with other projects how we could help them too. I've been talking to the CPython project members, and it seems like most of them can't make it to RustConf.

### "Discuss Rust Foundation Maintainers Fund" leadership-council#242

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/242
- **Labels:** A-foundation, I-council-nominated

[RFC draft PR #6](https://github.com/rust-lang/funding/pull/6) undergoing edits. Summary:

> The Rust Foundation Maintainer Fund (RFMF) is a joint effort by the Rust Project and the Rust Foundation to fund full-time Rust maintainers, called Maintainers in Residence. This RFC proposes how the Maintainer in Residence program should work: how candidates are selected, what's expected of them, and how the Foundation manages the relationship.
>
> This RFC builds on the Grants team established by [RFC 3919](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3919). This RFC extends the Grants team's role to also vet candidates for Maintainer in Residence positions funded through the RFMF. The Grants team identifies which areas need support and returns a prioritized recommendation to the Foundation; the Foundation makes the final hiring decision and handles contracting, compensation, and funder relations.
>
> This RFC does not specify how much funding the RFMF has or where that funding comes from. It describes how the Project and Foundation would work together to make the best use of whatever funding is available for Maintainer in Residence positions.

This is envisioned as part of a larger story. Sponsors of the RFMF will contribute funds that go directly towards PP budget (earmarked for "maintainer support" purposes). Large RFMF sponsors will receive support from leadership council + project (likely starting point is to have the LC + MiR meet with sponsors to hear about their experiences with Rust, share project priorities, etc).

In addition, the Project Goals team will work with the Foundation to gather directed funds towards [project goal roadmaps](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-project-goals/2026/roadmaps.html) with 10% of this being directed to the Project Priorities Budget. The following description (written by TC) captures this:

> **Foundation fundraising**
>
> The Foundation raises money into three buckets relevant here: the general fund, the RFMF sponsorship fund, and directed funds for Goals work.
>
> The Project Priorities budget is then funded from three sources:
>
> - The Foundation provides baseline funding from its general fund.
> - All monies raised into the RFMF sponsorship fund are directed to Project Priorities with the expectation (but not earmark) that the council will use them broadly in support of maintainership.
> - 10% of funds raised and earmarked for Goals work are directed to the Project Priorities budget to support the infrastructure -- most notably Program Management -- that makes Goals work possible.
>
> The remaining 90% of the directed funds for Goals work is allocated to the Project Goals budget.  This budget is also controlled by the council.  The Project will solicit proposals for grants and fund them through some process.
>
> The Foundation provides logistical support for this work by handling contracting, payments, financial reporting, and other such matters.

Niko: If you want to talk more about it reach out in #funding. We have a PR open, it has a bunch of comments. It's suggesting that we set up a maintainer residence program, when the funds come in, they'll go to the maintainers fund. The most interesting bit: the most likely benefit to a sponsor is time to meet with the leadership council. The idea would be for the LC to be supportive of the project.

Niko: I'm also working on another proposal which would add more *directed* funding to the project and some of it would go to the Project Priorities budget. It will help push goals forward. Some people talked about the "maintenance tax", and I'm trying to make it a reality.

TC: Niko and I have talked about soliciting funds earmarked in support of broad roadmap themes where the grants team would then be responsible for distributing those.

### "Grants team and 2026 grants program" rfcs#3919

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3919
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC: We talked about this last week; the RFC went live before that meeting and had been publicly distributed on Zulip for a week ahead of that. Since we last discussed this, I made the following minor change. The proposal had asked for $100k to distribute 5 grants at $1500/mo and left 10% set aside to handle other expenses. I've now updated it to ask for $100,800 ($800 more) to issue 6 grants at $1400/mo with no set-aside for expenses. Payments would still be made quarterly, at $4200/quarter. Otherwise the proposal is the same, modulo some added parentheticals. I've responded to all comments. What's next?

Niko: With respect to RFMF we thought we'd reuse the Grants team for that too. We expect that people would do more than process applications. Often people don't raise issues because they don't think it'd be helpful.

TC: If I understand correctly, you're suggesting that if, via the RFMF, the Foundation were hiring people full-time to work on maintenance activities, you're looking for a team to help guide that?

Niko: The Grants team has a very narrow scope and we would like to expand that so they can talk to team leads and help out with these decisions too.

TC: Makes sense.

TC: Should we FCP merge this? Is anyone interested in seconding it? We don't have to do it. We could keep the money in our pocket.

Eric: I'm willing to second it, but I was also involved in drafting it.

James: My only reservation is the amount of money, but I can't think of anything better to spend it on. Have you thought about splitting it up, or would it cause too much overhead?

TC: Looking to the rest of the year, maybe T-content will ask for a few thousand dollars for some equipment. But I don't see any other big-ticket items. We increased the travel budget and the Foundation is covering $50k for RustConf travel.

In prior years, we often struggled to fully allocate the budget. This year will sneak away from us. It's helpful to the Foundation to have a story on how we're allocating this money. That's good for communicating with sponsors.

All in all, it seems OK to me to make this allocation now.

Jakub: I haven't the your replies yet so I haven't proposed the FCP. I'd give it a few days so I can read it through and leave comments, then start the RFC next week. I'd prefer 8 to 6 I don't feel strongly enough to block it, so we should do it ASAP.

Niko: You could allocate the 100k and do three now and three later. It depends on the number of applicants. Might be worth leaving this to the grant team to consider.

TC: I had thought about doing that, in writing the RFC, but it's going to take some time to spin this up -- stand up the team, announce the program, collect applications, review them, etc. (There's a timeline in the RFC.)  We'll be midway through the year before we start issuing grants. Time's going to fly by. Probably we need to commit if we're going to do this at all.

Niko: That makes sense.

Lori: I think the way this is communicated to the project is huge.

James: Yeah, I think we don't *have* to do all 6 at once, but if there are 6 amazing ones, we don't *have* to wait either.

Jakub: We want to piggyback on the grants team for the RFMF because they should choose who will receive funding. I suggested in the RFC to rename the grants team to funding team.

Jack: It would be good to communicate this widely that the council is planning to establish this, especially if you want feedback on whether this is good or not. Beyond the council stream, maybe in a blog post. It would be good to get some broader feedback.

TC: We did put up an RFC ("request for comment"), which is our usual channel for getting feedback.

Niko: Post on #all/private?

Jack: Yet, many people don't look at RFCs. I'd say #all/private is good.

Jakub: I actually [posted](https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/546943-all.2Fprivate/topic/Funding.20discussions/near/573687799) it there, but I'm not sure people saw that. Posting it on Inside Rust blog would be great and then we should advertise it widely.

Jack: It never hurts to advertise more and have more people see it. Would be good to warn people that we're about to decide this.

TC: Once it goes into FCP it'll show up in This Week in Rust. But I agree, of course, we should advertise this as widely as possible, especially after we decide to do it.

TC: Please take a look at the proposal and consider proposing FCP merge. Eric or I could do it, but I'd like to know we're all excited about this.

TC: We're at time, so we'll wrap this up.

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

Eric: There are a few issues I wasn't clear on what the next action is. Jack's questions and some others. In a meeting, I like to have a clear understanding on what the next steps are.

TC: Which items do you have in mind?

Eric: Jack and Niko's about the zulip channels.

Niko: Two takeaways. PDs and the Foundation will draft a proposal. On Zulip, I left a message to James that I'll close this to make sure that Society groups can be a crate. And we can open the channels now and then retcon them to society groups.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
