# Council meeting 2026-03-27

## Attendance

- Council members: Jakub Beránek, Eric Huss, TC, Rémy Rakic
- Observers: David Wood, Tomas Sedovic, Jack Huey, Niko Matsakis
- Regrets: oli, Mara (after agenda approval)

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Tomas

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

TC: The proposal is that we'll take the custom item first: the CRA scheduling. Then we'll take the two budget requests. After that, we'll use the remaining time to discuss the recent matters. The nominated item is the RFC, but we'll use that instead to open the floor, via round-robin, widely on what we can do. Somewhat unusually, we'll defer the update items to the end and may not get to them.

Thoughts? If you're happy with this plan, push the thumbs-up button. Otherwise, raise a hand.

Jack: Yesterday the PDs and Foundation had a bimonthly checkin. Is there going to be a retrospective / follow-up on the ban?

TC: Thanks Jack for raising that; if it's without objection, let's please add that as a custom item.

Eric: Mara, you raised a concern about if we wanted to talk about the RFC or anything else related to the discussion about oli. I share that concern to some degree. Is there something we can talk about today that would be helpful / improve things?

Mara: I just want to make sure we don't talk about oli when oli's not here. And a lot of the discussion here might touch on that.

Niko: I'm concerned that any AI related discussion will consume all the time. I want to make sure we discuss the maintainer fund RFC first.

TC: How much time are you expecting to need for that?

Niko: Don't know, probably not much.

TC: OK, if it's without objection, let's move that ahead of the discussion on recent events.

Mara: I have to drop soon, but if there are mostly topics y'all could discuss without me, that would be better. Is there anything y'all think I need to be here for?

TC: I think we have important items all across the agenda.

Jack: I think Mara should go to the C++ sessions. Some of the discussions here should happen outside of the Council.

Eric: +1 to Jack, but Mara if there's anything you want to say about these topics before you go?

Mara: I trust you all in this.

TC: OK, please confirm with thumbs-up approval of the final agenda.

TC: Seeing support and no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

### CRA presentation scheduling

Eric: Would we be OK scheduling 30 minutes next meeting to discuss the EU CRA with Foundation staff (and possibly others like security team)?

TC: Eric, thanks for responding to Bec. Tell us about it; what does she want to discuss here?

Eric: I don't have more information. It's a compliance issue we need to be aware of to some degree. I'm interested in this and I'd like to see it happen. I know we often have a full plate. 30 minutes is a big ask but I'd love to see it happen.

Jack: Context: this is a thing that happens in the EU, the Foundation is doing a lot of the work to figure out what to do to comply with this. But the Foundation wants to talk to the Project: answer questions ,get thoughts, etc. First step: they want to talk to the Council and security response group. It's an opportunity to have an early discussion about this.

TC: Thank you for that. Eric, if this can handle happening in four weeks, I feel the currently pressing matters will still be pressing in two weeks, so four would seem better. Or we could try and take an off-week Friday and hold a special session of the Council.

Eric: Would people here be able to meet on the off weeks? I am.

Jack: The other option is to timebox 10-15 minutes of general intro discussion. And then ponder it and maybe dedicate more additional time later if needed. I'm not sure there will need to be extra time.

Rémy: Since you mentioned having a one-off meeting: we could also do that for the more pressing things.

Eric: Responding to Jack, we could do that but I want to be mindful of people's time. They want to bring in an outside CRA expert. I want to use their time as well.

TC: Proposal: let's schedule four weeks from now and give them the 30 minutes of time they asked for.

Eric: That sounds fine to me. I'd like to invite the security group too.

TC: Seconded by me, any objections?

TC: Hearing none; Eric, let's do that.

### Foundation questions on the banning of (redacted) (minimal minutes)

TC: Jack, tell us about the questions from the Foundation on this.

Jack: No concrete questions, but it would be good to have better public guidelines on what the Foundation does and doesn't do with the Project in terms of moderation. People thought the Foundation could overrule the Project. We were curious if there's going to be any retro on better security response practices. Is this still being discussed?

Niko: Context: people came to us, we told them this isn't our jurisdiction, but you should know they came to us.

TC: I have details in response to your questions.  I'll first pause for any objections for these being shared with our PDs.

Jack: I don't think we need to talk more deeply on this. I want to know more about procedures. The answer can be "yes/no, there's follow-up coming"

TC: There's follow-up happening; it's not been dropped.

Jack: That's what I was looking for. No need for further details.

Eric: Jack, you had another question.

Jack: Should we publish some messaging about the Foundation and Project in this? Clarify the Foundation doesn't moderate the Project.

Eric: That sounds good. I also heard about the security side of things.

Jack: That was discussed, but I don't think this group is the right place to do discuss. As long as everything's not been dropped, that's good. I can bring that back up to the PDs.

TC: Thanks Jack for raising it and proxying it back to the Foundation. It's important, I think, to the health of our relationship with the Foundation that we inform them when we're doing the right thing in these matters.

Jack: I want to reiterate that the staff is a resource the Council can lean on.

TC: Thank you for that.

## Nominated issues

### "Fund the Content team (2026 allocation)" leadership-council#279

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/279
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

TC: Back in August we chartered the Content team to work "to produce attractive publishable content for the benefit of the Rust Project, its members, and its community." Since then, we've published 9 videos, with another one going out this week. We've done 19 interviews overall at two major events: RustConf and Kangrejos.

Things have been going well, but a bit of investment would deliver a lot of return here. We've identified editing as the largest bottleneck. This task is hard for nonprofessional volunteers to do efficiently, and it's very efficient to hire out. Doing so would immediately get a lot of content out the door, would clear the queue ahead of the big conferences where we'll be adding many more interviews to it, and would get those new interviews out in a far timelier manner.

The next item on our list is professional videography. At the big events, when we're stacking a lot of interviews, it would help a lot and raise the quality for a professional to come in with all of the gear and to run it so that our team members -- the talent -- can focus on doing great interviews and on the work they need to do elsewhere in the conference -- they're team members after all.

TC: The ask is $15k USD to cover this and other miscellaneous expenses which are described in the proposal.

David: Do you have any information on the Content team's impact? There's a lot of people across the Project doing great work on their own time. It's not immediately obvious to me why the Content team would be prioritised over the others. Understanding of the impact the work has had would have helped.

TC: Great question. Getting great metrics is one of our TODO items. We've received a lot of subjective positive feedback -- feedback that is aligned with and suggests that we're achieving the stated goals. People are seeing these and it's helping to inform and educate our community.

With respect to why we'd fund this work and not other work, unlike writing software, editing videos is not something where our team members use the tools often enough to gain and maintain expertise. This makes it expensive for us, but cheap for a professional to do, making it efficient to hire out. This is specialization at work.

This is also a rather defensible spend for us. It produces highly visible and valuable results and will be easy for the Foundation to justify this line item when talking with sponsors.

Rémy: Where would this budget be taken away from? From the grants, travel budget?

TC: It doesn't reduce the travel grant budget. We allocated $100k, and our discussions have tended toward a view that we'll be holding the line at that amount. We have about $116k of unallocated funds; we'd be allocating $15k of that. We have a grant proposal asking for about $100k. We can accept both. If there were other priorities, we could scale down the grants program proportionally to support fewer people.

We're coming up to the edges of fully allocating the budget. This is actually a good thing. In prior years, we had sometimes struggled to do this. It's helpful to make these allocations somewhat earlier in the year.

Rémy: So it's not reducitng the Grant program, we could go as planned and this would be on top?

TC: Yes; between this and the grant program, we'd fully allocate our budget.

Jack: Important to think about this in the next item too. We're getting to the point where things are butting up against each other.

Jack: I like this proposal. The Content team is important, publicising our role is important. We should be working more closely with the Foundation in terms of marketing. Maybe there's shared marketing budget they could partially provide. Things like equipment and software, should be tracked on the Foundation side as assets. Having it tracked on their side is important so they can write out appreciation etc. And as the team changes, it's important to make sure this is tracked. Better alignment on teh Foundation on this will be import.

TC: Agreed. Lori is part of the Content team; we coordinate closely. I agree we don't want to purchase equipment. I lean toward rental for exactly the reasons you mention.

In terms of funding, I would like to see the Foundation support this, if they saw value and were willing. If you talked with the Foundation and could convince them to do that, structually the way I'd want to see that happen would be for them to expand the Project Priorities budget -- to backfill it for this spend.

Jack: I think there's a more underlying thing -- the Content team could work more closely with the Foundation marketing people. This isn't a separate thing but could be a bigger picture for them. E.g. having someone go to the All Hands and do professional interviews, the Foundation may be already doing that for Rust Conf. Finding ways to do something together is going to go a lot further in not just money but in the products.

TC: This is educational content. Given our goals, there's going to be a limit to the degree of overlap that will exist between the Foundation's marketing activities and those of the Content team.

Niko: I see a role for the Content team to get more funding for things like the maintainer fund. So this could be an investment towards the other budgets. In the RFMF RFC we called out the Content team to show value. Otherwise a lot of burden would fall on the maintainers to show this work.

TC: That's absolutely the part of the idea here. Thank you for mentioning that.

TC: How are people feeling about it?

Jakub: I'd have to read the proposal. At a first glance it looks reasonable.

Rémy: It sounds reasonable to me too, has some good positives. Would be interesting to see if we could lower it a bit to not exhaust the entire budget.

Eric: It largely seems reasonable to me. Could we reduce the amount somehow? But it's already a small amount.

Eric: What Jack was saying I interpreted as: if the marketing already has a professional videographer at RustConf, maybe they could reuse them -- that sounds reasonable to me.

TC: We do exactly that thing on the Content team. We collaborate with the Foundation on logistics. E.g., we worked closely with Lori and Gracie on RustConf to secure rights to use venues for filming.

TC: I proposed FCP merge.

Jack: It would be useful to put this on the Council stream before fcp merge. This got opened 9 hours ago and the first time the Council talks about it is in a meeting now. Having some discussion is good.

Eric: +1 to that. I can raise the visibility or TC you can speak in your own voice.

TC: I already proposed FCP merge. Is there a proposal on the table to ask me to cancel that?

Eric: There are 2 things: (1) put this on Zulip, ask for feedback. (2) about this FCP proposal vs. fcp status. In my experience anybody can do 'rfcbot fcp merge'. The FCP only starts when everyone checks their boxes. I feel there's difference of opinion on what that means.

Jack: I think in general "fcp merge" is fine. It doesn't mean you need to check all the boxes and merge immediately. But it gives a different signal than "we're thinking about this, let us know your thoughts". Whereas going from "fcp merge" to "gives your comments" seems a bit more like a foregone conclusion. Also, in terms of process, if things change, people would have to change their boxes. If you want comments, you shouldn't do fcp merge right away.

Eric: I heard that before. And I've seen this being different in different teams. For example, Josh Triplett prefers "start fcp merge process as soon as RFC is open".

Jack: That's a great idea. But I don't want "fcp merge". I'd like something like "fcp start" where you can start the discussion, formally register concerns and have it be tracked. It's not "merge" or showing any bias towards any decision.

TC: Procedurally, I view a proposed FCP merge as an "I" proposal. I'm saying that I'm proposing this to the team. And maybe I wouldn't propose this after talking with the Council if it weren't in the realm of possibility. But given this is plausible and seems to have support, I'm OK proposing that we do this. I agree, of course, that we should raise its visibility. To some degree, an FCP helps with that. E.g., as far as I know, FCPs appear in This Week in Rust.

Eric: I've heard this comment before. People feel like when a team member puts up a proposal, other people feel like that they're no longer interested in feedback. I think the point of an FCP is to get feedback, but the perception is there.

Rémy: In the teams I'm part of, fcp merge looks like the beginning of the *end* of the process. Not the beginning of the process. If you want some activity / discussion, we have nominations for that. In my experience fcp merge is either because something is not controversial or a consensus has been reached.

### "Provide design budget for crates.io" leadership-council#278

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/278
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

Jakub: Crates.io asked the Council if there's funding for a design for the crates.io website. I think the Foundation has people who have designers who do their website. Maybe we could connect them.

TC: I agree this would largely land on the Foundation side, especially in light of how they've been thinking about funding `crates.io`. What could the PDs do to bring this to the Foundation?

Eric: I'd love to see this happen, but I don't know what the scope is. Hard to talk about given that.

TC: Would one of our Project Directors be willing to volunteer to raise this with the Foundation?

Niko: I'll do it.

### "Discuss Rust Foundation Maintainers Fund" leadership-council#242

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/242
- **Labels:** A-foundation, I-council-nominated

Niko: [The RFC is open](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3931). There's not been a lot of discussion. I have one outstanding item. I'd like to move forward on fundraising and hire some pepole. Right now it's blocked on LC.

Rémy: Can we ask individuals to look at the RFC? And then do what's needed to do from the Council?

Niko: That's a great idea. You can take it to your teams if you want. 

Rémy: What do you need from us?

Niko: Propose to merge and check your boxes. Or do whatever needs to happen to get to that point.

TC: What follows behind this RFC? What's the money situation? What happens after we approve this?

Niko: I'm not aware of immediate funds. But I'd like to try to rais e those funds. I know some that are likely to come in. I don't want to go to companies, pitch them on something and find out there are basic concerns I need to revise. I'd feel comfortable with the flip side of that -- if the Council says that it' makes sense but they don't want to approve it until we've talked to companies, that's okay.

Niko: My expectation is it's going be a slow start. I know Lori has some ideas on how to raise money. I think we'll probably get some number of companies putting in larger sums. But the feedback we got from Bec so far is that undirected funding is a hard sell. So the follow-up work I want to do is an RFC proposing directed funding to Project Goals and portion of that would go to this fund.

Niko: Having this as a place we can start directing funds will let us start filling its coffers.

TC: Thank you for that.

---

TC: We're at time and are not going to get to the next item during the meeting.  Given that it might be helpful for some timely discussion to happen, though, I'm going to propose to we go through the process of closing the business part of this meeting, then I'll invite those who are able and willing to remain on the bridge for an unminuted virtual hallway discussion afterward.

### "Add *no low-effort contributions* policy" rfcs#3936

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3936
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

(We did not get to this in the meeting.)

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated, A-program-management

(We did not get to this in the meeting.  The preprepared update follows.)

Tomas: Nurzhan and I are attending meetings alone now, giving us more time for other work.

The [2026 Project goals RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3935) is open. It includes the Mirroring RFC. Almost everyone here has been asked to check their boxes.

Lori had suggested a RustConf session on the Python work we were doing and given the looming deadline, I submitted a proposal. It has been accepted in the form of the 10-minute in-person project update.

No one from the Python team is able to make it there this year and despite my repeated calls, no one from the Project has stepped up to do so either. I'm happy to deliver it, though that would imply further travel this year. I'm happy to travel, but I'm raising it to highlight the extra expense.

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

TC: Hearing none, let's do checkouts.  After we close the business part of the meeting, I'll invite any who are willing and able to remain on the bridge for informal discussion in our virtual hallway.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
