# Council meeting agenda

- Meeting date: 2026-04-10

## Attendance

- Council members: TC, Eric Huss, Rémy Rakic, Jakub Beránek, Mara Bos, Josh Triplett
- Observers: Mark Rousskov, Lori Lorusso, Nurzhan Saken, David Wood, Niko Matsakis, Jack Huey

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Nurzhan Saken

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

> Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: There's a lot going on. More than most weeks, I'm not particularly certain about how to approach the agenda and would welcome ideas. What I've put together is as follows. We'll address the budget allocation items first — I don't expect they'll take much time. Then we'll take the PM update. Then we'll look at the Rust Foundation Maintainer's Fund — Niko has an RFC up, and Jakub has proposed FCP merge. Then, if we want, we could touch on the AI situation. I don't expect we'd get through anything else.

Eric: On RFMF, Jakub asked to get that started quickly. Did you want to say something here or handle it async?

Jakub: Please take a look. We had 2-3 weeks with no feedback. There's lot of follow-up work that depends on the RFC, so we need to merge. There are some questions on how the Fund will work. The RFC delegates this to the Funding team. I'd prefer for us to get this working ASAP.

Eric: Do you want to spend time discussing this today?

Jakub: Not unless there are questions.

Niko: Agree with Jakub. We're blocked from getting money because of the lack of checkboxes on the RFC. We shouldn't waste time on hot topics we're unlikely to make progress on. Frustrated that it's still April, and we don't have a merged RFC.

Josh: Agree with Niko regarding the hot topics. Let's move the AI topic to the end and hold to the strict timeboxes. The discussions are wild and ongoing, and having one here would be at the expense of the other topics.

TC: It's already at the bottom of the items we expect to cover on the agenda.

TC: Hearing support and no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

## Nominated issues

### "Provide design budget for crates.io" leadership-council#278

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/278
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: Jakub, you put this forward. Any updates?

Jakub: No, don't think so. Lori wasn't here last meeting IIRC. We've asked the PDs to ask the Foundation, I think.

TC: You're right, we had asked one of our PDs to volunteer to field this. Niko, perhaps you took this. Do you recall?

Niko: No, can you refresh my memory?

Jakub: The crates.io team asked for a budget to redesign the website, which is dated. We don't have a lot of remaining budget. The ask was to go to RF, ask for resources. Maybe the Foundation could pull their own designers for this. Lori, I don't know if you know.

Lori: This is the first time I'm hearing about this.

Niko: I didn't follow up, but I can open a topic and talk about it with Lori.

Josh: On the Project side, I'm wondering if this item is still current since it's from 2024. We should ping people on Zulip and confirm that it is.

Jakub: Tobias asked two weeks ago if this is still happening.

Josh: Thank you. It wasn't recorded on the issue.

TC: Thanks Niko for navigating this with the Foundation. It makes sense to me for the Foundation to do this given the resources they already spend on `crates.io` and the plans they're working on for funding it. Interested to hear back on this.

### "Fund the Content team (2026 allocation)" leadership-council#279

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/279
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, proposed-final-comment-period, disposition-merge, I-council-nominated

TC: We talked about this last meeting. The ask is for $15k in support of the work. The All Hands is sneaking up on us next month. Part of what needs to happen, given the funds, is seeking out and scheduling professional videographers for the event. So there's some time sensitivity.

TC: What we had discussed in the last meeting is that we wanted to put this proposal out there more widely. Thanks to Eric Huss for doing that — he put it out on Zulip. It also went out with Tomas' summary of the meeting.

TC: I've proposed FCP merge; there are checkboxes up.

Mara: For the AH, reach out to me or RustNL because we're looking for something similar. And we know people in the Netherlands.

TC: Absolutely. Appreciate it.

Jakub: The Project Grants has the most recent state of our budget. I don't understand the financial notation in the async discussions. Could someone explain the current state of travel grants?

TC: We're in the same situation as last month from an overall budget standpoint. David's update let us know how far we are into exhausting the travel grant budget. We have $14k unallocated in that budget as of the end of March. We expect the Foundation to stop approving grants when we hit the $100k limit — and I do expect us to hit that limit. Since we'll stop issuing travel grants, that's not expected to change the rest of the picture. That will leave us with about $116k unallocated. We have two proposals: one for $15k (here) and the Project Grants proposal for $100,800. That will fully allocate our budget for 2026, almost to the penny.

Jakub: Thanks. I'll check my box on the content FCP.

TC: Josh, the FCP was started before you joined the council, so there's no box there for you, but of course feel free to comment with +1 or raise a concern.

Josh: If there were a checkbox, I'd have checked it.

TC: I'd recommend for you to put a +1 there then.

TC: Rémy, you're the only open checkbox apart from Oli who is not present.

Rémy: Last time we discussed the point of buying versus renting, but I don't care that much. This is time sensitive, and as everyone is fine with it, I'll also put my checkbox.

TC: Most of the Content team would prefer to rent. From the council side, we're delegating the budget. I don't think it's a LC matter to handle the specifics. I commit that, whatever is done there, it will be done properly and in coordination with the Foundation.

Josh: Minor detail: Do we have appropriate procedures to depreciate assets?

TC: The Foundation would have to handle that, and I'd prefer to avoid it unless necessary.

Josh: Just wanted to make sure there's a pathway where if this is needed, it can be done.

TC: There is one, but we want to avoid having to ask them if not necessary.

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated, A-program-management

TC: Before I hand it to Nurzhan, I'll mention that Tomas had a talk accepted for RustConf 2026. It's about the collaboration between the Rust Project and Python. That's exciting.  Congratulations to Tomas. Since this is for RustConf and falls in the category of an organizer supporting expenses for their speakers, I'd suggest the Foundation cover the costs of his travel, perhaps from their $50k budget for RustConf travel. I've asked about this.

Nurzhan:

- The March program management blog post [has been published](https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust/2026/04/09/program-management-update-2026-03/).
- Most team leads have signed off on the [Project Goals RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3935) (7 remain).
- The final Project Goals 2025 update will be published after the RFC is merged.
- Most teams have been notified about [scheduling sessions](https://github.com/rust-lang/all-hands-2026/) for the All Hands.

TC: Thanks Nurzhan. As always, I'd recommend people to look at the blog posts — both for February and March.  Lots of interesting things in there.

David: When it comes to things about requesting the Foundation, just so we know, can you ping us so we're aware.

TC: Absolutely. This one happened 10 minutes before this meeting, so I'm raising it here for your awareness.

### "Discuss Rust Foundation Maintainers Fund" leadership-council#242

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/242
- **Labels:** A-foundation, I-council-nominated

TC: As Niko mentioned, there's some time pressure here.  Niko, what do you think would be best? Should we read this quietly to see if we can get the boxes checked? How do you feel we can move this forward?

Niko: That might not be the best use of time, but also I want to get the boxes checked. "Great, we merged the RFC. Now what?" is the question I want everyone to think about. We want to establish the team. I mentioned on `#council` that an interesting framing around this team would be what Lori said about helping teams with whatever problems they're having. That could be one purpose of the new team. I want to have some perspectives to take to companies.

Josh: 1) In the spirit of perfect being the enemy of good, I don't think we should be looking for a generalized structure right now. I'm in support of creating such a branch of organization. The devil will be in the details, and figuring out everything will delay. Let's empower people to start doing the maintainer's fund and create the team immediately after it is approved. Niko, are you interested in being on that team?

Niko: I'm up for that. My POV is that this is the highest leverage for me. Josh, I agree with your thoughts on organization. Just saying that while this team is working, I suspect their scope will naturally grow. Once they get the ball rolling on RFMF, we'll probably have other things for supporting teams. I'd like us to go into this with that mindset.

TC: I have a question, Niko. For the Grants team, I worried a lot about having a team that's self-perpetuating (managing its own membership), since it's dealing with money and choosing the Project members that get supported. It seems better for its representativeness and credibility if its membership is replenished periodically by the council or by each of the individual teams. Could you talk about that?

Niko: I've had the same thought. It's a counterargument to what I just said. My philosophy on teams is making one and then recognize it with a charter. There is advantage to term limits / replenishing both for the credibility and for allowing people on the team to benefit from it. E.g., I'm happy to be on the team now — I have a job and don't need support. But I could imagine, maybe in 2 years, I'll have retired and be considering a grant.

Josh: 1) +1 and adding terms would be a natural way to rotate without stigma. I agree with not making it self-selecting. 2) To capture this, I'm going to file a concern on RFMF RFC so we don't forget. I don't think an RFC needs to capture the full charter, but have a bullet point about membership not being exclusively self-selecting, self-perpetuating.

Jakub: We can already see that the Funding team will be special in terms on membership and processes. Do we need a separate RFC to establish this team? It'd delay more things. How will we establish it? LC FCP?

Niko: That's definitely another RFC. If the Grants are going forward, maybe those teams should just be merged. We'll figure out whether there should be a self-perpetuating part for the structure, and the other part for actual process.

TC: Yes, you and I should talk about whether it makes sense to merge the teams.

---

TC: Maybe the most effective way to use the remaining time is for you to talk us through the RFC. What are the important points and design decisions? What might be the most contentious points? Etc. Think about that while Josh talks.

Josh: +1 to potentially merging the teams after establishing them. Makes sense to later reorganize.

Lori: Do you have a date in mind that you want to kickoff the Grants program. Would that help solidify things? Can the Project get their stuff together that we can submit when the program releases?

TC: I'm not sure we want to pivot to talking too much about the Grants program. To answer your question, there's a schedule laid out in the RFC. After the RFC is accepted, we'll need to take some other steps, e.g., identify potential team members, select the team, etc. It'll likely take the new team a short while to find their footing, prepare the process, communicate the program, etc. I estimated somewhere around 2 months for that. Jakub's been pushing me — rightly — to finish up the drafting so we can start the clock on this. As Niko pointed out earlier, there have been other matters in the Project that have been draining time from all of us.

---

Niko: I'll walk you through the big bullets.

Jumping to design axioms. If the Foundation collects money from RFMF, how specific should that be? We decided that not too specific, that it goes into the general Priorities bufget. We wanted this to be a bit more defined. The money can be used for Project Grants, Project Management, any future programs. One use we strongly recommend is Maintainers in Residence, similar to Python and others.

We should codevelop between the Project and the Foundation.

What can we offer to sponsors? One thing is giving people a reason to give money. Everyone who benefits needs to work on this collectively. In practice, the person hired first was aware, but the ones hired later would be less involved.

Hiring team members. This is phrased carefully. We wanted to allow people on the cusp of team membership to qualify. We want to allow some form of bootstrapping.

We didn't outline any specific benefits/tiers. We don't want to directly tell anyone what to do. There's room for other things. Meetings with sponsors in the room, direct reporting, some amount of prioritization. Especially for companies that use Rust heavily, they may want to bump some important bug.

(Mara: fwiw, the RustNL Maintainers Team uses pretty much the same list of potential benefits. Seems to work for us.)

Niko: ...At the same time, we don't want to refuse funding. We also want to take into account what sponsors want prioritized.

In terms of supporting maintainers to sell their work...

"How much is this a full-time role" was a question. One problem was longer-term tasks requiring focus. If there were a perfect hire but only wanted to work limited hours, that should be ok. But too little, and it's not enough to count as maintaining. Not sure where to draw the line.

How public to be about funding? Should it be flat? This is an area for the funding team to manage.

Skipping to future possibilities. Some of the stuff seems generic, like recording, gathering data, updates. We wanted to position these as services that were using the RFMF, but maybe are of interest to other funding organizations. Sharing infrastructure with those.

We left open, and it's not part of the RFC, to come up with a more directed funding possibility.

Josh: Distinction between "if a sponsor donates enough to fund a full MiR in an area of Rust" that's slightly directed but not enough to tell them what to do. This future possibility is more about "could this person in compiler work on this area"

Niko: Are you funding an outcome ("25% performance win") or an area?

Rémy: Looks good to me. Planning to check my box today. Want to respect the urgency.

Niko: (Points to Unresolved questions section and organizational form.) ...I think working on the Project Grants and figuring out if they should be merged could be more practical.

TC: Agreed; let's talk, you and I, on that.

Mara: This morning, the RustNL maintainers team had its first full time employee signing contract. We expect to have 2 full-timers, 4 part-timers and 1 intern in a month from now. I'm excited about this and the RFMF efforts. Thanks everyone for doing that.

TC: Thank you, Mara. Thanks to Niko for putting up the document. Thanks to the RFMF subcommittee. I'll be reading the document and am expecting to check my box in the next many hours.

## Call for clarifications

TC: Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

TC: As one program note, Eric, what's the final resolution for what we've scheduled with the Foundation for the EU CRA compliance work?

Eric: We scheduled it for next week. I'll be inviting people to join on Zulip.

TC: Who are we expecting from the Foundation?

Eric: Bec can't come, Joel, Lori...

David: The RF is planning more generally to announce this to the Project and host a session to answer questions.

TC: Hearing no other items, the business part of our meeting is now closed.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
