# Council meeting agenda

- Meeting date: 2026-03-13

## Attendance

- Council members: TC, Mara Bos, oli, Jakub Beranek, James Munns, Lori Lorusso, Josh Stone, Eric Huss, Niko Matsakis, David Wood, Jack Huey, Joel Marcey
- Observers: Remy Rakic, Nurzhan Saken

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Nurzhan Saken

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: Hearing support and no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

## Nominated issues

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated, A-program-management

Nurzhan:

* Project goals: For all of the goals that had missing champions, we found the champions or lowered the asks. The Mirroring goal has not been submitted yet, but the discussion continues, and the draft is being refined. We're ready to write the RFC.
* The February PM blog post is ready and waiting to be merged: https://github.com/rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org/pull/1814.
* Rust for Linux: Reviewed lang, compiler and tooling improvements, and planned a design meeting for late March.
* C++ interop mapping: teor has been making great progress — documenting some of the [problem space](https://github.com/rustfoundation/interop-initiative/tree/main/problem-space), the [use cases](https://github.com/rustfoundation/interop-initiative/issues), and their relationship to other goals and Rust features, as well as talking with teams about priorities and future work. They've been posting weekly updates on Zulip and monthly ones in the goal's issue, and planning to attend the discussion around the goal at the All Hands.

TC: The February 2026 PM update PR is up:

https://github.com/rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org/pull/1814

### "Discuss Rust Foundation Maintainers Fund" leadership-council#242

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/242
- **Labels:** A-foundation, I-council-nominated

Niko: We're close to making an RFC. There's a pending PR with the content. TL;DR: We're proposing a MiR program to complement the project grants proposal. We're proposing the RFMF funds be used the way the Council deems best according to project priorities. Part of it will go towards contributors, some to program management, and other needs.  We don't lay out the specific sponsor tiers, but some of it is support from the LC to meet up and discuss the sponsor's project's priorities. I would like to get it merged soon.

oli: Maybe just open the RFC and let's discuss it. I don't think a multi-tier discussion makes sense.

Niko: Makes sense, I'll bring it up next time.

### "Discuss travel grants 2026 projections" leadership-council#276

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/276
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

#### Budget update

TC:

For full details, see: https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/274

##### Grants Program closing balance fix

Due to a formula error in a spreadsheet, the number reported to us originally for the closing balance of the Grants Program budget was $118,672.81 (which had then been rounded to $118,673 due to an error in spreadsheet formatting).  The Foundation had worked backward from an intended 2026 Project Priorities starting balance of $650k to arrive at the contribution of $306,010.06 in new funds.  Due to the formula error, $12,270.13 was omitted from their calculation of the funds carried over in our overall budget, leading to that number being calculated as $225,317.13 as opposed to the correct figure of $237,587.26.  The Foundation then used the incorrect $225,317.13 figure to work backward from the intended $650k starting balance to infer the final figure for the closing balance of the Grants Program budget, leading the erroneous $118,672.81 figure to be reported instead of the correct figure of $106,402.68, which was derived from other records.

This is a material change; it affects budget reports that we've given in earlier council meetings.

##### Current position

###### Balance sheet

|                       |          Amount |
|-----------------------|----------------:|
| **Assets**            |                 |
| Council (unallocated) |     $116,188.14 |
| Compiler-ops          |      $65,175.86 |
| Program Management    |     $316,012.49 |
| Travel                |      $94,084.24 |
| · Available           |      $39,604.93 |
| · Committed           |      $54,479.31 |
| Mentors (Outreachy)   |      $25,000.00 |
| **Total assets**      | **$616,460.73** |
|                       |                 |
| **Liabilities**       |           **—** |
|                       |                 |
| **Net position**      | **$616,460.73** |

###### Income and expenses

###### 2024

|                    |          Amount |
|--------------------|----------------:|
| **Income**         |                 |
| Microsoft          |     $650,000.00 |
| GSoC               |       $4,500.00 |
| **Total income**   | **$654,500.00** |
|                    |                 |
| **Expenses**       |                 |
| Travel             |      $16,154.97 |
| Mentors            |       $4,500.00 |
| **Total expenses** |  **$20,654.97** |
|                    |                 |
| **Net**            | **$633,845.03** |

###### 2025

|                    |           Amount |
|--------------------|-----------------:|
| **Income**         |            **—** |
|                    |                  |
| **Expenses**       |                  |
| Travel             |      $115,069.63 |
| All Hands          |      $100,000.00 |
| Grants             |       $80,000.00 |
| Program Management |       $56,364.00 |
| Compiler-ops       |       $44,824.14 |
| **Total expenses** |  **$396,257.77** |
|                    |                  |
| **Net**            | **−$396,257.77** |

###### 2026 (year to date)

|                                      |          Amount |
|--------------------------------------|----------------:|
| **Income**                           |                 |
| Foundation (contribution)            |     $306,010.06 |
| Foundation (Grants Program transfer) |     $106,402.68 |
| **Total income**                     | **$412,412.74** |
|                                      |                 |
| **Expenses**                         |                 |
| Program Management                   |      $27,623.51 |
| Travel                               |       $5,915.76 |
| **Total expenses**                   |  **$33,539.27** |
|                                      |                 |
| **Net**                              | **$378,873.47** |

###### Budget position

| Category              |         Balance |      Committed |       Available |
|-----------------------|----------------:|---------------:|----------------:|
| Council (unallocated) |     $116,188.14 |              — |     $116,188.14 |
| Program Management    |     $316,012.49 |              — |     $316,012.49 |
| Travel                |      $94,084.24 |     $54,479.31 |      $39,604.93 |
| Compiler-ops          |      $65,175.86 |              — |      $65,175.86 |
| Mentors (Outreachy)   |      $25,000.00 |              — |      $25,000.00 |
| **Total**             | **$616,460.73** | **$54,479.31** | **$561,981.42** |

###### Travel projections

See: https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/276

TC: Looking at the [numbers](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/blob/main/budget/budget.dat) for our 2026 year-to-date spend on travel grants for the All Hands -- surprisingly -- our per-request cost may be flat as compared with the 2025 data.  (Thanks to @davidtwco for getting us last year's numbers.)  It's a bit too soon to tell exactly (since the mean request amount is a function of time until the event).  But it's probably not much higher.

What is up is that we've received **50% more** requests this year as compared with the same point in time last year.

Now, that could mean that people are submitting requests earlier.  Or it could mean we should expect to receive 50% more requests.  Or it could be somewhere in the middle.

In the most optimistic case -- if we get only the 55 requests we received last year and don't need to pay out 6.5% of the amounts (as last year) due to claims not being submitted or coming in below the approved amounts -- and if we change our policies now to cap requests at $2k, then we might expect to come in somewhere just under our $100k budget.  But that's the best possible case, not the median one.

(Last year we also received 5 requests after the event that weren't preapproved totaling $8,905.  For other later events, excluding RustConf (now covered by a separate Foundation budget), there were four requests totaling $4,534.)

If we don't cap requests at $2k, then we're almost certain to exceed our budget.  Our average request so far has been $2070.  Requests last year that came in after 73 days out cost about $285 more each than the earlier requests.

If we do get 50% more requests, we don't start capping requests, and everyone who is approved makes a claim, we'd expect to spend **around $160k** (exclusive of requests not preapproved and requests for later events).

These are the options I see for attempting to stay within the budget:

1. Do nothing.  Continue approving All Hands + RustWeek requests that exceed the $2k limit.  We'll soon exhaust our $100k budget, at which point we'll start denying all travel grant requests.
2. Stop approving the portion of requests above $2k not necessary for All Hands attendance.
3. Stop approving the portion of all requests above $2k.
4. Stop approving the portion of all requests not necessary for All Hands attendance.

If we actually get 50% more requests this year, which is what we're currently on track for, then even option 4 will cause us to run out of funds and have to start denying travel grant requests in support of All Hands attendance.

The other option, of course, is to allocate more of our remaining funds to support travel grants.  But this would diminish, of course, our ability to support other priorities such as Project Grants.

Lori: I don't know what Paul's method was last year but the form has been very well received and people have been submitting prior to events - last year there were several submissions post event.

I need to double check my numbers but last year the Travel Grant supported 51 Project members to attend RustWeek and the All Hands for $103,000. This year we have received 33 requests at a $70,517.

7 requests for other events.

TC: The 70k, does it represent the requests we've approved?

Lori: Yes. That's not just All Hands, but everything requested.

James: Trying to see if we could turn this into a fundraiser opportunity. We could put out a request to sponsor someone going to All Hands. We could make a blog about it, specifying concrete costs, value, deadline. This could let us avoid the case where we run out of money.

Mara: We have a spreadsheet of people who signed up for All Hands, and in that people have specified if they get sponsored. I'm surprised that many requests are still coming in.

Lori: A lot of requests came in after the event. The form is helping. If we had 51 last year, we have 53 this year. Everyone in the Project seems clear that requests need to come in before the event.

Mara: The communication about the travel grant is different this year. Now we say "submit it now", and I ask people to DM me.

TC: I'd caution against optimism. Last year we spent about $115k on travel. The numbers have to be reviewed carefully because the Foundation broke $10k of RustWeek ticket purchases into a separate line item. David's numbers show that 19 of the requests we've received so far are for people who didn't apply in 2025; his analysis was that many of the people who applied in 2025 and haven't yet in 2026 are people that one might expect to still apply. David, thoughts on this?

David: I made the best attempt to determine how many people applied last year. Maybe I underestimated the number. I'm looking at the list of people who requested money last year. Maybe there are reasons they didn't request money this year. Maybe circumstances have changed, and they won't apply this year.

oli: We should make a judgement call now. It's not useful to keep talking about it and guessing.

TC: To clarify, what would you like to move the discussion toward? The policy changes?

oli: I'd move to discussing the policy changes and planning for running out of the budget.

TC: Makes sense.

James: I don't think we don't necessarily need to change the plan. We set out a budget to support folks, and following through is important. We can change the budget/policy next time.

Mara: I checked the registration form, and 47 people indicated that they'll need support. I'm thinking of how we can make it cheaper next year, but that's a discussion for another time.

Lori: Want to echo James. I've run programs like this, and it's usually an "early bird gets the worm" kind of thing. I'm happy to keep everyone updated on what's been promised vs. what's been distributed. I think you're in a better place than you think you are. Learning from the past has helped to get where we are now.

TC: Concrete proposal: let's stop approving requests above $2k; this will allow us to support the travel of more people to the All Hands with the remaining funds.

oli: We could limit it to $2k, but we don't need to limit it permanently.

James: We could do partial reimbursement up to $2k. We don't want to force people to keep their 

TC: Yes, to clarify, the proposal is to deny the portion of each request over $2k.

Lori: In my mind, when I got the extra notice, I thought the person shouldn't have to cover the additional cost.

Mara: I don't think any of the All Hands attendees know we're running out of money. Maybe we should post about this, so people would consider cheaper options for hotels. We should do that probably.

TC: When doing that, could you invite the council people to that channel?

Mara: The subscribers are exactly the people who plan to show up. Inviting more will make it harder for me to manage the list.  I could do it in the public channel.

TC: Makes sense.

James: I support what you said, TC and Mara. Say we have issue with funds, and communicate that we won't cover more than $2k.

Mara: Who should communicate that?

Lori: I can if that makes it easier since everyone deals with me anyway.

TC: Sounds good.

Lori: We have one outstanding request needing one more +1 for council approval; the request was already above $2k. The person has now come back and adjusted the estimate upward by $180 after needing to change hotels.

TC: I haven't given it a +1 yet. I'm happy to, if people think that's right, but it's already a large request and well over the $2k limit.

Mara: I think we should be ok with people making mistakes even especially if it's an amount like this.

Jack: I agree with Mara. I think we're empathetic as a project. Let's say "we're running out of money, please try to pick a cheaper hotel even if it's further because overall it will let more people come". 

TC: OK, I'll give my +1 for the $180. Lori, you have our approval on that.

TC: Regarding the change to stop approving the portion of requests over $2k, I'll file an issue in our repo and propose FCP.

Eric: Just to clarify, you're saying the limit will be exactly $2k, or that if we have any left over after the event, we can reimburse expenses over $2k?

TC: I'm undecided on that part.

Eric: I think the margin is small. We might only have a few extra thousand and it's not going to make a significant impact on future travel.

Josh: How much of the unallocated budget could be shifted towards travel later in the year?

TC: $116k is unallocated. The idea was to propose a Grants program using $100,800 of that.

Josh: So we have an idea of what to do with that money.

TC: Yes. Eric, I'm leaning toward paying as much of the overages as we can. I'll write something up.

### "Policy proposal: Vibecoded contributions are not acceptable on `rust-lang/rust`" leadership-council#273

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/273
- **Labels:** question, S-needs-decision, S-active, A-policy, I-council-nominated

TC: We've been discussing this in various places.

oli: We want to have something to refer to as mods when someone proposes bot-generated PRs and we want to ban them. We want to foster a community first. Now we have an ad hoc policy. We want to avoid a whole AI policy. We want to cut off vibe coders and prevent things like adding AGENTS.md. The alternative was proposed by TC and Niko, to propose something less negative.

TC: This is a real problem we need to address.  My working theory is that some people who are sending us low-effort PRs don't understand how it hurts us; stating prominently how and why it does will cause these people to reconsider.  Other people are truly bad actors.  If we take steps to state our expectations clearly, then we can better separate the two.  The mods know how to deal with bad actors.

Here's what I would propose:

We adjust our contribution documentation and PR templates to prominently say:

> **No low-effort PRs**: We expect you to own (in both a legal and accountability sense) every line that you submit to us. We need you, as the submitter, to be knowledgeable about your submission; to be able to confidently answer questions about what you're meaning to do and how you're meaning to do it -- and even about your own uncertainties -- and to have ideas about how it might need to be improved based on maintainer feedback.
>
> An open contribution model, such as ours, relies on *partnership* and *trust* with contributors.  The maintainers will be investing substantial time and energy to review your PR.  Your responsibility is to do everything you can to make it as easy as possible to review and to accept.  That means putting in a lot of time and energy yourself.  Consider your PR from the maintainers' point of view.  What would you want to see if you were a maintainer?
>
> If you can't say honestly that you as an individual have considered that carefully and have worked hard on the PR so the maintainers have to work less hard -- and especially if you can't honestly say you fully understand your PR -- then don't submit it.  Sending us a PR that takes us more work to review than it took you to create is *harmful*.  Please don't do that.

After putting that in prominent places, I feel as though we will have made ourselves clear about what we expect.  We have policies for people who knowingly and repeatedly fall short of our stated standards.  I'd suggest we confidently apply those.

Further, in any case where it's clear we've received a low-effort PR, no one should be expected to put effort into explaining its rejection.  A link to the section of our PR template and a note to the moderators is sufficient.

Jack: I think oli said it right in terms of what we want. We want humans to learn from doing contributions, especially small ones. The reason we leave easy issues is because of that. We should state this very clearly. The reason for this policy, apart from maintainer/mod burden, is that we want people to learn, and these bots hinder that. That's "positive". There are too many words here; nobody will read it fully. We should make it concise.

oli: I like what Jack said. What TC wrote is good to have in a PR template, but I think we need to have a sharper(shorter?) policy somewhere. The CoC is a list of bullet points, and we should have something like that.

TC: I agree on the need for bullet points on the policy side, and my proposed bullet point would be "no low-effort PRs".

oli: We don't know where the line is. For us, having a not clear enough policy is a problem. We can keep doing what we're doing but stop responding to those people. However, having a concrete policy that's explicit about the things that will lead to a ban would be useful.

Jack: Low-effort PR is a hard thing to quantify. Adding a test: my first contrib was adding a test. It's low-effort, and also a way to get started with the project. It's a wrong axis. "Low learning" is a better one.

Niko: What Jack said aligns with my thoughts. I didn't like the policy as stated because it didn't tell me what we are going for. To have teeth, we need punchy bold statements like "no vibe coding". I found it challenging to articulate the positive case. At the same time, we can't expect people to be experts (TC: I already revised that language). It's easy to make a statement that says what we don't want. Jack said it well: we're looking to build a community around our code. It doesn't mean you can't use AI, but it does mean you should learn. I don't want to forbid using AI on easy issues.

TC: What I meant is you should be knowledgeable about how you mean for your PR to work. We don't expect people to be an expert on that area of code, of course.

Niko: I'm not criticizing the intent of your words, I'm pointing out it's hard to articulate it just right.

TC: Anything we do here is going to have the effect of raising the bar.

oli: That's why we want a negative framing as a policy – we just want to get rid of vibe coding.

Niko: We want to be as careful and targeted as we can. oli, why is this in LC and not t-compiler? I personally would like to have a unified AI policy. Having different policies in different teams would be confusing.

oli: Main pressure is to have it in rust-lang/rust. I'd be careful about not having a global policy...

Niko: I don't think we can decide the wording here. This seems to be a vibe check?

David: What's needed at the moment is a policy that can be pointed to when rejecting a contribution. I'm comfortable with having a list of things we don't want to solve that problem for the mods.

James: Embedded WG adopted the wording from LLVM (https://llvm.org/docs/AIToolPolicy.html#extractive-contributions). It focuses on empowering mods to close/ban PRs. +1 to give mods more power to decide.

James: People learning is more valuable to the community than the project ?

Eric: Thinking of next steps. I feel like nobody's owning this, only giving opinions. There hasn't been a clear "what do we do next". Do we specifically do Jieyou's proposal, or...?

TC: I agree with Niko that we're going to need exact verbiage on this to approve something. Maybe we can come up with something we can all get behind.

Eric: I think the issue has exact verbiage and explains it. We could go forward with that proposal or keep talking about it...

oli: I'd like to FCP is. If you reject it, we could go back to the drawing board.

TC: The current proposal didn't sit well with me. I'd probably file a concern to have more time to clean it up.

oli: It means we'll keep doing ad hoc proposals that might end up worse than what's proposed. The amount of slop is bad.

Niko: I thought that Jack had a pretty strong start -- I would think that could be turned into a specific thing and FCP'd async. I think it won't take long to workshop the proposal. I'm aligned with oli that there doesn't seem enough disagreement to take longer than a week. Let's get in touch with the proposal author and make an edit.

## Call for clarifications

Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

TC: Hearing none, there are no points to be clarified.  That closes the business part of our meeting.

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
