# Council meeting 2026-04-24

## Attendance

- Council members: TC, Eric Huss, Jack Huey. Jakub Beránek, Mara, oli, Josh Triplett, Rémy
- Observers: David Wood, Dirkjan Ochtman, Emily Albini, Jack Huey, Joel Marcy, Lori Lorusso, Sergey Davidoff, Tomáš Šedovič

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Tomáš Šedovič

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

TC: The plan is to talk through the EU CRA compliance work first and to allow that to take the time that needs to take.  Then we'll take planning for LC activities at the All Hands and a vibe check for Project Holidays.  Then we'll take the PM update.  That's as far as I'd expect to get in this meeting.

TC: Please raise a hand with any thoughts.  If this sounds good, please press the +1 button.

TC: Hearing support and no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

> (Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

## Nominated issues

### "Discuss EU CRA compliance work" leadership-council#291

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/291
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

Joel: We wanted to have a quick discussion with the Council and the security response people here. Æva Black who will be giving the webinar on Wednesday is an expert on this. But we've been thinking about this as it's coming down the pike.

Joel: The CRA is a new EU regulation to safeguard consumer and businesses that contain software. Knowing what's coming and what it is, do we fall anywhere under the auspices of the CRA? It can be argued that the Rust Foundation is the steward of the Rust software. But what does it mean to be an OSS steward under CRA? It's not been thoroughly defined. It's unclear whether we'll be required to comply with the CRA in a meaningful way. We're not technically in a commercial activity, but Rust can be used that way.

Joel: Æva will talk about this in the coming talk next week. It might be interesting for the RF and the Project to be in compliance even if we're not required. That could give Rust a distinct advantage. Companies might weigh that in when deciding on using programming languages. To be a compliance steward, there would be security policy changes we'd have to agree on. We'd have to add SECURITY.md to all the repos, have a top-level security policy for the Project as a whole. And that may be enough. The expectation from the webinar might be similar to what we'll talk here. Æva will give us the basis and definitions of this. The legal requirements, what opportunities and liabilities exist for stewards. If we're not required to be a steward there may be little liability, but if we are, there may be a lot -- it could go anywhere from a slap on the wrist to potentially end up in a court. I don't know. Æva will gives some recommendations on what she thinks.

Walter: A lot of this is brand new legislation. People are trying to interpret things. Nothing has been interpreted in any European courts. Regulators are looking at what does interpreting this mean. From the "needs to do / has to do" as a steward, the security response does that already. There's maybe extra feed to report to etc. A lot of this discussion is more about the conceptual side. Is this something we want to do top-down as a Project.

Joel: Understanding this is all fluid, Walter and I are working to create an actionable checklist to get us compliant as it stands now. It doesn't seem to be too much heavy lifting in term of what you need to add to a GitHub project or organisation. If we are legally required to be a steward, that might have more heavy lifting -- we'll need to have processes in place. But the security response team may already be 95% of the way.

Joel: Any questions?

Emily: We already have a central policy that covers everything in the Rust organisation. It doesn't cover what's in the Rust Foundation org -- we asked a year ago and haven't heard back. The Project has done all of the ground work and we handle security vulnerabilities. We're doing a fairly good job. All of this is something the Project has been doing before the Foundation even existed. If the Council decides to go with the CRA stewardship to document that we're doing this and are in compliance, sure.

David: Even if we don't need to do anything, it's important the Project members are aware of what it's about in case a scammer reaches out or something similar. That's why this the webinar is important.

Sergey: Does the regulation require an SBoM (Software Bill of Materials)? That's a popular thing to require these days.

Joel: I don't know for sure and I don't know whether Æva knows for sure either. I recall she has some documentation around things like attestation etc.

Eric (in chat): https://cra.orcwg.org/faq/stewards/sbom/

djc (in chat): https://cyber-resilience-act.com/cra/chapter-2/article-24/

Walter: It's mentioned but it's down to the interpretation on on whom it's required. Probably not on the steward but on commercial entities using OSS. The CRA decides what differnt entities are and what their requirements are.

Sergey: The reason I'm asking is I'm seeing increasing SBoM requirements on companies using OSS. So I've been working on tooling to provide that. It's in a good place but it's a bit more tricky for the compiler. We may want to start providing SBoMs for artefacts distributed in rustup.

Sergey: https://github.com/CycloneDX/cyclonedx-rust-cargo is the most accurate by far. There are others, including language-independent ones, that read Cargo.lock and spit out CycloneDX and/or SPDX

Walter: Nothing is finalised, but we may be able to ask people to provide funds for this. But we aren't required on this.

Joel: The Æva is going to approach the webinar is 30 minutes of slides and 30 minutes to open up the questions. And we can tell them what we do already. And maybe Æva will say that we're already compliant -- maybe with a couple of tweaks.

Joel: An interesting thing might be if there's a difference on the rules for the Foundation vs. the Project. But I think at this point it's probable going to be both have to be or both not.

Josh: Reinforcing Emily's point -- there's a lot being done in the Project that we want to coordinate so we're not duplicating effort. There are also a couple of novel requirements in the CRA that are not part of what OSS projects normally do. These are things that we may not do already, but we could do and we may want to have support. I'm thinking of things like notifications and disclosure requirements beyond just posting a CVE. Walter can speak more to that.

Walter: That's correct. And that's why it comes down to more modifications of processes rather than setting new ones. We'd need to set up a market authority and then also notify the market authority in addition to a CVE. And we need to have a point of contact etc.

Josh: Those seem like tweaks to existing process but they're also things that have something like an SLA in terms of timeframe, there are the kind of thing to pull in the security response team and also have folks who do an equivalent on being on-call so this doesn't fall too much on volunteers.

Walter: Yes.

Emily: On changing the processes, the point of contact: if for legal reasons the Council decides that we need to have another email address or some legal text, getting inbound things from the market authority -- we're already doing that for the US. We already do this for CISA. We've been doing that since 2021. People from security response are the point of contact for that. So having another source of reports shouldn't be a problem. In terms of workload, we're a team, we know how to add new members to the team.

TC: Wonderful; thank you. Eric.

Eric: By when do things need to happen? Their FAQ says September when reporting requirements for manufacturers start.

Joel: I thought this was supposed to come online in 2027. But there's no specific date I'm aware of. Maybe there's a different date for manufacturing and stewards. We should clarify with Æva.

Eric: I'm confused by the term "profit" that they use. It's unclear if someone's paid whether they're "collecting profit" and whether they have the same reporting requirements as stewards. Does the Foundation have thoughts on supporting individuals in terms of helping them navigate this.

Eric: Let's say we have someone who's paid to work on Rust but they're not part of the Foundation. They say "if you make more than what's considered expenses" they're considered "making profit" and might be required to report.

Walter: For the interpretation on what's steward we haven't talked that through with Æva. But for any one individual it would all fall on the Foundation being a steward. If you talk about independent projects, that's not what we discussed with Æva.

Eric: Some people might be paid to work on the Project but they may also have other crates they work on, etc.

Walter: Any other independent work is outside of the steward and that's decided separately.

Josh: Seems there's a lot of potential coordination to do between security response and the Foundation handling the CRA checkboxes. In addition to the webinar, does there need to be a coordination meeting between the CRA experts and the security response team?

Joel: Æva's webinar is just the first step. But she's going to be available to us for consultation going forward.

Josh: Sure. I'm wondering whether we want to set that up in parallel.

Joel: I don't want to set anything up before Æva has the webinar. I don't think there's anything to do in parallel yet.

Josh: The primary consideration is: It sounds like there may be a number of chunks of information, I'd want to make sure there's an opportunity to review some of that that's not things that need to be communicated around things the Project's already doing before the meeting happened.

Josh: I'm trying to avoid the scenario where, for instance, there's a webinar saying "here are some things the project isn't currently doing and may need to" before there's a chance to confirm what security-response-wg is already doing or could easily add.

Josh: Purely trying to avoid obvious coordination issues. ;)

Emily: I understand we're already doing almost everything on our own. If it's useful for Æva to have a call with us so she can figure out the gasps and come up with recommendation, that's fine. What's important is to have the checklist of what we need to do to be CRA compliant. It seems the main thing is adding some legalese. If the Council wants this, we can do that but I'd prefer not to ask questions at the webinar because I was frankly a bit surprised by the initial message from Joel when we already have things like security.md, having an overarching security policy etc.

Emily: I think it'd be best for Æva to go over our policies etc. since they're all public. And then suggest the changes we need to make.

Joel: I'm not trying to cause any friction. These are things that we know and whether we're already doing everything than that's great and we may be compliant already.

Emily: I'd just expect that to have checked that before having the call.

Walter: Before the webinar it's reasonable to answer Josh and Emily. Emily we can set up time between we and you and the security response group. I have a checklist that we can sync on and run through it. And then during the webinar we'll have a much clearer information on where we are.

Lori: I think the main thing we're trying to get across this is: we have Æva on retainer. In working on this, it'll make this smoother down the line. We want to let everyone know that the CRA is coming but from the Foundation's point we've got you, there shouldn't be hiccoughs down the line as we're pursuing this proactively. And we have an expert that has our back to make sure we're all working together. We're trying to make sure there aren't any surprises happening.

TC: What I'm hearing as the next step is we'll have the call with Æva next week and see what we find out there. And there's probably work that needs to happen to get the security response team the information they need to understand what the differences are between the current state and what it might take to be CRA compliant. That may bring a question back to the council of whether we want to be CRA compliant. Does that sound right to everyone? Emily.

Emily: Security response is right now very swamped. We have a fair amount of LLM security reports open. We appreciate Walter looking at the checklist while we're able to focus on security response. And we're happy to follow whatever the Council decides.

Walter: We'll take a one-off between myself and the security response and go over the checklists.

Jack Huey: I'm hearing Emily saying "if there's something the Council thinks we should do, we'll do it", but I want to reframe this: is this something the Foundation could do to help the security response group? Maybe there's a more central place that we can ensure the security response and policies are link to. Emily, you're swamped with incident reports, maybe the Foundation could help with that. I'd like to discuss the role of the Foundation and how to help and make things better. That goes hand in hand with the CRA.

Joel: I didn't say I didn't know these things didn't exist. I said these are the things that need to happen. But maybe it's possible to have a specific security.md at the top of the Rust repo. I know we have policies and actionable things to do. I'm saying there may be things that may need to happen.

Emily: I understand what you're saying now. We do have a security.md in the repositories and we have the org-level document. But when I said we're swamped it wasn't pleading for help. The current load is not too much for us to handle. We may look at extending the team. When there's more than we can handle, we're already asking the Foundation for help as Walter can attest to.

Josh: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/?tab=security-ov-file

TC: Thank you to Joel, Lori, Walter, Emily, Sergey, and djc for joining us today and talking through all the items here.

### "Discuss LC All Hands activities" leadership-council#289
 
- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/289
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: We have just a few minutes remaining. What do we need to do async or in 2 weeks on this?

Jakub: Do we want to have an offline sync meeting on this? Also, do we want to have an all hands session with the Project members there?

TC: I don't think we'll have all the Council members there.

Mara: We can do it at the regular meeting time and we have the equipment for people to join remotely.

TC: Sounds good.

Josh: I'm interested in seeing the "talk to the LC thing". That sounds like it would be genuinely useful. For the other one we might take the atmosphere and see what we might want to schedule so we can focus on things that can be unblocked there. That may inform what we'd want to schedule for such a meeting.

### "Discuss Project Holidays" leadership-council#290

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/290
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated

TC: I'm thinking of putting up an RFC for Project Holidays. After the last December holidays, where all the teams took about two weeks off, I thought, "that was great; we should do that more often." The Project can be hard on people, and some more time for people to rejuvenate would be good. I'm thinking we could take two weeks off after each of the All Hands and RustConf. I've received some early feedback on this that has been positive. I'm curious what people think.

Josh: +1 to the idea of doing this in coordinated fashion. Half-serious, half-joking: If we are going to have official holidays, one of them might want to be annual "time skew" weeks during the DST desync between USA and Europe, since half the project's teams tend to take that period off anyway.

TC: That's a good idea. The window can be pretty long, though. It was nearly a full month this year.

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated, A-program-management

* The [2026 Project goals RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3935) is down to a single missing checkbox.
* We invited TC and Pete LeVasseur as Edition team representatives to the Rust for Linux meeting. They discussed various approaches to dealing with editions within the kernel.
* The Mirroring work seems in a good place. We're having regular substantive discussions (last time: splitting the crate metadata files, partial mirrors and mirror discovery). Joel will distribute Yubikeys at the All Hands and they'll test things out.
* For the Content team, we reached out to teor for an interview on C++ interop as well as the Fish shell folks.
* Tomas put up a [PR to update/clarify the PD election process](https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/pull/286) based on the September 2025 election

## Call for clarifications

> Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
