# Council meeting 2026-06-05

## Attendance

- Council members: TC, Rémy, Josh, Jakub, Eric Huss, Oli, Mara
- Observers: Pete LeVasseur, Tomáš, David Wood, Lori Lorusso, Jack Huey, Niko, Joel Marcey

## Meeting roles

- Facilitator: TC
- Minutes: Tomáš

## Check-in

(Not minuted.)

## Consent to agenda

*Estimated time: 2 minutes.*

> Do we have consensus to move forward with this agenda?

TC: The proposed agenda is as follows.  First, we'll do a budget report.  This will take maybe 3 minutes and will give background for later items.  Next, we'll take the item about T-project-structure, as David has a scheduling constraint.  I interpret this as a vibe check; Eric has outstanding questions and I'd expect we'd want to see a concrete proposal with a charter before acting.  Next, Jack had some questions about the Project Priorities budget; let's let him raise those.  Maybe one or two of us can answer those quickly; otherwise maybe it's a vibe check.  Next, Mara is raising the matter of the All Hands for 2027.  As Eric noted on the issue, there may be constraints on what we can commit.  If so, maybe this is a vibe check.  Let's then take LC-245 for an update from the funding team who met earlier this morning.  Let's then take the PM update.  With any remaining time, I'd propose we quickly triage remaining nominated items to see whether the items can be unnominated or call for discussion in a future meeting.

For the vibe checks, if it's without objection, I plan to do those as a single round robin of the council members.

I've added estimated times to all of the items on this basis.  If we keep to these times, we can get through everything.

As a reminder, let's be sympathetic to our notetakers.  If you see me leaving some silent spaces, it's to let noketaking catch up.  Please also check your own remarks for correctness and completeness.

TC: Any questions or thoughts?  Suggestions for reordering any items?  If not, please press the +1 button to approve the agenda.

TC: Seeing support and no objections, the agenda is approved.

## Announcements or custom items

(Meeting attendees, feel free to add items here!)

### Budget report

*Expected time: 3 minutes.*

TC: Here's where we stand through the end of April:

**Current assets:**

| Category                  | Amount       |
|---------------------------|--------------|
| Unallocated council funds | $94,188      |
| Program management        | $281,256     |
| Compiler-ops              | $65,176      |
| Travel                    | $82,759      |
| Mentors (Outreachy)       | $32,000      |
| Content team              | $15,000      |
| **Total assets**          | **$570,380** |

Note this overstates our available assets (through the end of April) as many of these assets are actually committed.

- **Compiler-ops:** We still haven't received any 2026 invoices, though I understand the work is happening, so we must expect we will receive these.
- **Outreachy:** I'm confirming when this payment is expected to go out or if it already has.
- **Travel:** Since the end of the reporting period, we understand our travel budget to have been fully committed.  We'll see what we end up needing to pay out.  It could be less than $100k due to people having not traveled or not submitting documentation.  About 6.5% went unclaimed last year.
- **Program management:** So as to be able to provide continuity of service and continuity for staff through short-to-medium-term budget uncertainties, the teams delegated this budget deliberately manage it conservatively.  The planning takes into account renewing the PM1 contract through at least July of next year and the PM2 contract through at least January of next year.
- **Content team:**  The team spent as expected on the All Hands by hiring a professional videographer — which went well — and has contracted for editing work on its backlog, with results expected soon.

Since the last budget report (2026-05-08), we've made no new allocations.  Thanks again to David Wood for working with us to reconcile monthly with the Foundation.

Eric: On compiler ops, there is an overallocation on that. I think that was intentional.

TC: I don't think the overallocation on compiler ops is as significant as has been suggested elsewhere. We're allocating in USD and paying in EUR. Taking the exchange rate into account, and leaving some margin for exchange rate variability and for a follow-on month or two, the allocation is relatively tight.

Jakub: I spoke to apiraino and he mostly forgot to send invoices. He'll likely be sending them soon.

## Nominated issues

### "Start a t-project-structure/t-comprehensibility" leadership-council#298

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/298
- **Labels:** A-teams, A-project-structure, I-council-nominated

*Estimated time: 8 minutes.*

TC: I understand this as a vibe check item. David, tell us about it.

David: I want to start a team responsible for writing up charters for the teams, what they do, what their policies are for membership, leaving the team etc. We'll document them and try to standardize it where teams are willing.

Eric: Most of my concerns depend on my first question: what's the charter of the team? I'm positive of the idea to try progress.

Jakub: Happy about the idea. It's ambitious but it's a long-term plan so I'd begin documenting what's there today rather than changing the charters right away.

Josh: I think this is a really good idea. The name "t-project-structure" would imply more than just harmonizing between teams but also working on overall project structure reorganizing between teams. I think that's something we need, but too big to roll in with this effort to document and harmonize charters. In that regard, "t-comprehensibility" sounds like a better name for what it's trying to do. But having a team that would initially help teams document their processes and in a second pass help teams normalize their processes where they're gratuitously different (in ways the teams don't specifically need them to be different) seems like an excellent facilitation job.

Mara: If the question is "should we have a team for this" I'd be skeptical. If the question is "Do we want David specifically to do this" then yes. David is a great person to do this. Happy to see Dave's starting this work.

oli: t-libs wants to sync on how compiler works might be a good starting point. Large long-term project like this has a tendency to fizzle out. I want to make sure there's an exit strategy. If you encounter too many blockers. Want to avoid priorities shifting and in 3 years we realize nothing happened for the last of those three years.

Rémy: The idea sounds good to me. Something we need to do, this is the first step. What do we need from the Council to go ahead? Just the charter and name? The name isn't as important to me. Things like places for the documentation should be left for the team.

TC: I think it's great. Always happy for other people to do more organizational work in the Project. I'd want to see a charter — what I'm looking for there is what decision-making authority we're delegating to the team. I want to be careful about still preserving the autonomy of teams and not creating impression that we're removing such autonomy.

### "Review project priorities budget" leadership-council#299

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/299
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated, A-budget

*Estimated time: 4 minutes.*

TC: Jack, you had raised a question for us that I understand as having maybe come from the Foundation. Tell us about that.

Jack: Brought up on the last PD call. I'd encourage the Council to think about the budget that's there. It's been a while since everyone thought about what should money go to. Are there ways to spend things more efficiently? Are there things not on the list that should be? Things that should or shouldn't be spent? Mainly, the money is there. Maybe there could be more. Maybe there should be more spent. Think about that.

Lori: From the budget owner perspective, the idea is if you don't use it you lose it. Not saying this happens here, but there's a substantial portion that's unspent and we're in June now. Let's look at what's high-level been allocated, where are the big gaps. Where we can fill them so we don't leave money on the table at the end of the year.

Jack: Just because there's money there doesn't mean it needs to be spent now. E.g. there's another Outreachy cohort in December. Having some idea of what you might want to use it for is a great idea. Grants is another example here.

oli: At every org I was at I hate the "you have to spend money to get more money". I want to avoid that proactively.

Lori: I know that's what people don't like to hear. If Outreachy is something you'll be allocated. Give us a high-level picture of where the funds will go. By the end of the year maybe 80-90% will be earmarked so it's not just sitting there. If you want the same budget next year, if you roll over half of it to next year then we need to give you less to get the same budget. Let's be cognizant of the ability to ask for more next year based on needs for next year.

TC: Thank you Lori for that clarification. Eric.

Eric: There's less than 15% of our funds available at this point. We have plans to completely exhausting that. The idea is to give the rest of it to the Funding team. I don't think there's any money to think about.

Jack: Eric said the plan was to give the rest to the Funding team. Does everyone still feels that's the right option and say it? E.g. in the vision doc meeting about having a compensation for doing a survey is good. So there are things the Project can use money for. If there's money to be spent, it might be worth talking to people and seeing what they think it'd be best to spend the money on.

Josh: It sounded like Eric was saying 15% is unallocated. Sounds like that's not the universal impression. There may be a delta in understanding, based on the difference between how much we spent vs. how much we allocated but haven't spent yet.

TC: That's what I'm hearing too. I think I may understand the reasons for that. Let's take those details to the meeting thread afterward. Regarding plans for the Funding team, we can take that later in the meeting on that item.

### "Rust All Hands, again!" leadership-council#300

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/300
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

*Estimated time: 8 minutes.*

TC: Mara, please tell us about the ask.

Mara: I'd like to start working on the All Hands for next year. It would be nice to know earlier this time. I'm hearing a lot of feedback that people want to do it next time. Three things I'd like:

1. Decide that next year's All Hands will be part of Rust Week organised by me.
2. The same thing for the years after. It would let us spread expenses, bookings etc. to save money
3. I'd like to reserve 50k USD for the All Hands from the Project Priorities budget. The venue + food + transportation etc. for 2026 adds up to 100k USD. RustNL can cover most from the ticket sale. If we can get 50k from the project priorities and RustNL will cover the remaining 50k

TC: Let's do a round here; in your comments, if you think a particular proposal should be put forward via FCP, mention that, and we can do that async afterward.

Eric: I'd like some time to discuss with my teams how things are going. Overall I don't have any complains/concerns about the general idea.

Jakub: I was happy with how the All Hands was organised. This year it was fully paid by RustNL outside of travel grants. We should be more involved in funding. We can do it more smartly without spending too much money by making smart choices about accommodation etc.

Mara: Currently, some of the hotels in the neighborhood aren't accepting reservations yet. If we get the commitment, we could reserve an entire hotel, but we can't wait months to be able to do that. The longer we wait the more expensive it'll get.

Josh: The value of the All Hands is extremely evident to the Project and everyone who attended. We should support this from the Project perspective. If we're going to provide support to the event and the travel grants (both of which we should do) then we should ask the Foundation for more money to the Project Priorities budget in order to support both.

Oli: Yes, absolutely. Let's do another All Hands there and we shouldn't change anything. If anyone wants to change anything let's do it for 2028.

Rémy: No concerns. Doing it next year and giving funds form the priorities budget I think that's a good idea.

TC: I've been happy with what we've been doing. Doing it with RustNL has been easy, and people have seemed happy with it. I'd be thrilled to do the same thing again. That said, it's worth checking with the Foundation, since they had ideas on this. But I haven't seen a concrete proposal so far. If they want to do it, that's what I'd want to see. It would have to answer many questions to overcome the presumption that's due to what's worked for us in the past. As Eric mentioned, it may also be worth checking in with our teams.

Jack: There's a default bias that the All Hands as is is the right way to go. I'd like us to be very cognizant of that bias and think about the alternatives that could exist. 2 examples: it'd be good to have someone do a cost analysis having the all hands where it is vs. somewhere else. E.g. what's the travel budget there, hotels vs. somewhere else. I'd like the Project to do the due diligence to see if this is the right thing cost-wise.

Jack: Also, this year was very packed, last year was very packed as well. There's to some extent the amount of limit of what you can do as a team. Because you get so many more people involved. Supporting team meetups for smaller things is really important beside All Hands. If we only do All Hands I'd like us to think to think about what we'd be giving up. Or e.g. doing All Hands every 2 years and supporting small meetups and other conferences.  I don't think by default we should be saying that we do an All Hands every year, because I personally think there are other things that we could be doing that might provide better value.

Mara: Regarding cost analysis: the All Hands is not just about flying a bunch of people to the same place. The largest cost is not travel or hotels or venue, but the time of the people organising it. I spent more than 6 months on it together with colleagues at RustNL. You won't get that in another location: I will not organize it in a different location. So feel free to do a cost analysis, but if your result is that Iceland would be ideal in terms of travel costs, then my response will be "okay, have fun in Iceland". I'm not going to organize something remotely, and as far as I know there is nobody else willing to organize it.

TC: Let's take it to Zulip.

Josh: If there is a concrete proposal for something to do instead of an All Hands that will produce as much value as the All Hands, we can review that concrete proposal alongside any other proposals. If there isn't one, we do know how much value the All Hands produces.

### "Discuss how to spend funds for supporting maintainers" leadership-council#245

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/245
- **Labels:** I-council-nominated, A-budget

*Estimated time: 8 minutes.*

TC: Jakub, there was a funding team meeting earlier this morning. Tell us about that and where this stands.

Jakub: We're planning to start sending the funding forms early next week. To figure out funding needs of individual Project members. We discussed the grants program. We still have a decent amount of money set aside for that. One of the blockers was deciding whether  we should have a separate team for funding and grants. We discussed this and we think it's ideal if the Funding team manages everything. We'd have the full context, easier discussion. And we'd ideally have a single budget we'd manage. I'd like to move grants forward. Would the Council delegate grants to us?

TC: As the author of the Grants RFC, let me ask, what's the funding team looking to see on that? 

Jakub: The proposal would be: delegate the responsibility of the grants to the funding team. And give at least part of the grants budget to the team.

TC: I talked with Pete earlier to ask whether I should remove the charter for the grants team and the funding amounts from the RFC such that we could then FCP the remainder of it. He indicated that there was discussion about the team maybe wanting to develop some experience first before writing down these details. What's your read there? I want to be sure I'm not the blocker.

Jakub: I'd say that's correct. I'm not sure if we even need the RFC. If the Council wants to delegate handling grants to the funding team, we can ask people to send applications or do it continuously on a per-need basis. That's what the Funding team would be figuring out. To me the RFC is not that important. What's important is whether the Council RFCs the decision to give this to the funding team and give us the budget.

Niko: What I'd like some feedback on is: we're trying to balance having the discretion to find the right path (with of course the needs for transparency and structure). I don't want us to upfront say we're going to give out the money in these two forms. I want to hear where we should document it, how should we manage transparency. We'll have to do as we go forward. The ideal setup is to say, here's some budget. And you all should evaluate the needs and make decisions about how to apportion it out. And then we'll review those and discuss how that went as a retrospective.

TC: That makes sense. I'd propose taking this async. Hearing from you both here has been valuable and will add color to the later discussion.

Josh: I can take my question offline.

### "Update on program management program" leadership-council#161

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/161
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated, A-program-management

*Estimated time: 4 minutes.*

Tomáš: Fruitful discussion about Project goals and funding at the All Hands. The Types team decided to abandon MCPs in favor of Project goals, we're looking at the possibility to doing that for lang experiments too.

We're looking at streamlining the goals process to enable this.

We started attending the Types meetings and we'll start attending Docs next week.

We were both invited to Kangrejos 2026 (the Rust for Linux meetup). We're thinking over the timing and travel logistics, before coming up with estimates and asking for travel funding.

### "Enable GitHub Sponsors for the `rust-lang` organization" leadership-council#285

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/leadership-council/issues/285
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, proposed-final-comment-period, disposition-merge, I-council-nominated

*Estimated time: 4 minutes.*

TC: Jakub, you filed this and have an outstanding concern. What do we need to do to close this one out?

Jakub: There are questions around what does it mean that individuals have github sponsor accounts vs. the project has its own account. Should we copy what the Foundation does? We'd like to hear whether the Funding team could be responsible for figuring this out. What would the rust-lang/funding page look like. But I don't think it's high urgency at the moment.

TC: OK. We'll leave that one sitting there with the concern then. You'd be OK with us unnominating and then renominating once there's something we're ready to talk about?

Jakub: (Nods.)

### "Project-wide LLM policy" rfcs#3959

- **Link:** https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3959
- **Labels:** T-leadership-council, I-council-nominated

*Estimated time: 4 minutes.*

TC: I had nominated this item for parity with the nomination on RFC 3950. I've since closed RFC 3950 and RFC 3936. The concurrent policy rust-forge PR 1040, given changes made at my request to limit scope, is now not a council issue so I removed my nomination on that one. I don't personally have a reason to sustain the nomination on RFC 3959. I'd like to ask the Council whether we want to keep it nominated or whether we should unnominate it.

Rémy: I'm not seeing the question around the RFC itself. It's about the process?

TC: I nominated it originally. Personally, I don't want to hold the nomination — I'm not meaning to nominate it for discussion myself. I'm asking the Council whether anyone thinks it should be kept nominated.

Oli: Happy to take care of that.

TC: Thank you Oli.

## Call for clarifications

> Should any points discussed in the meeting be clarified?

Oli: Next action on Mara's nominated issue. What's the plan?

TC: I'd ask someone to talk with people, pick one option and propose it for FCP. If somebody else feels strongly about a different option, it can be filed in a separate issue and proposed for FCP there. Most likely, though, we can discuss on Zulip and work out a single proposal.

Eric: Jakub, for the supporting maintainers question: what were the next steps?

Jakub; It'd also be an FCP. The question is what's the scope. One thing is delegating the Grants program to funding. The second thing is about how to get budget from the Council budget to the funding team (e.g. for grants). How do we do that implementation-wise. Do we do it at the beginning of the year? Does the team ask the Council for a set budget? What we could FCP today is delegating the grants to the funding team.

Niko: My take: Yes, FCP "give us $x K"

Rémy: Same

## Check-out

(Not minuted.)
